A Prayer Recounting the Lives and Liberation of the Exalted Ḍākinī Mandāravā1
by Samten Lingpa

Then, with devotion, the Dakini Yeshe Tsogyal offered countless prostrations and maṇḍalas and
made this request to the Lord of Uḍḍiyāna: “Kyé! Prince of Uḍḍiyāna, Padmākara! In the Eight
Great Charnel Grounds – Śītavana and the rest – you appeared as your eight nirmāṇakāya
manifestations. Now, here within Tibet, you have turned the wheel of Dharma and taught countless
distinct divisions of the Secret Mantra Dharma. Supreme and foremost among ḍākinīs,
I bow before you, Lord of Uḍḍiyāna. With great kindness you have excellently taught the
Lives and Liberation of the exalted ḍākinī Mandāravā. We beseech you, still, to grant us
a prayer condensing her lives and liberation. For those of us gathered today, and for all
future beings, grant us a summary succinct, profound in meaning and brief in words, a prayer
that in the mere reading harbors certainty, purifies obscurations, and thus bestows blessings
and accomplishments. We beg you, speak your words of kindness!” At this request, the
guru beamed with joy and spoke: “Listen and I will teach you well. Samaya! In the early
morning, on bended knee, with palms together, Call out in gentlest voice, intense with faith
and devotion:

emaho ngöntsé kalpa nangjé gyalpo ni
Emaho! Previously, in the aeon of the Illuminating King Bhāskara,
wangchuk lha yi semo gökarmo
You were Pāṇḍarāvasinī, Clad in White—Iśvara’s divine daughter, .
lam jang khorwa pang né ngön sangye
Training on the path, you renounced saṃsāra and attained true awakening.
man dha ra wé shyab la solwa deb
Mandāravā, at your feet I pray!

dé ok kalpa rinchen dalwa na
Later, in the aeon of All-Pervading Jewels2,
dramzé gyalrik semo gar wang trul
You were born into the royal Brahmin class as Princess Nāṭyeśvarī, Lady of Dance.
nyimé nyingpö gyalsi chö la kö
You established the kingdom of Sūryagarbha in the Dharma.
man dha ra wé shyab la solwa deb
Mandāravā, at your feet I pray!

kalpa drönmé sertub tenpa la
In the bright eon of Kanakamuni,
dü sum gyalwa nam kyi jinlab né
Blessed by the buddhas of past, present and future,
ku ngé rangshyin duljé ling ngar trö
You manifested five embodiments to tame beings on all five continents.
man dha ra wé shyab la solwa deb
Mandāravā, at your feet I pray!

wangchen yabyum semor ku trung né
Taking birth as the Princess Maheśvara and consort,
özer nang gyen shyé gyur gyagar gyi
You were called Adorning Light3.
ka ni ka yi yul kham chö la kö
The Indian kingdom of Kaṇika was established in the Dharma.
man dha ra wé shyab la solwa deb
Mandāravā, at your feet I pray!

pakpé jinlab mün ling da ma rur
Blessed by the Āryas, in the dark land of Ḍāmaru,
pema kyé trul tamdrin drok su kuk
You manifested from a lotus and summoned Hayagrīva.
shyi dang drakpö gyalkham karpor gyur
Through peaceful and wrathful means, the kingdom became virtuous.
man dha ra wé shyab la solwa deb
Mandāravā, at your feet I pray!

lha yul gyajin né su kam ka ri
In the abode of the god Indra, in Kaṅkari,
dampa tok kar mar gyur lhamin pungtsok tul
You were the mother of Sacred White Zenith4 and you tamed the asura hordes.
yul jom shyé drak lha kham sangye gyur
You were famed as The Vanquisher, as the god realms entered the Buddhist path.
man dha ra wé shyab la solwa deb
Mandāravā, at your feet I pray!

okchok riwo norbü tsemo ru
In the lower world, on the peak of a mountain of jewels,
lumor trul té lu yi né kün sal
You emanated as a nāginī to dispel disease among the nāgas.
dhar min dra shyé lu nam changchub kö
Known then as Dharmendrā, Lady of Justice, you placed the nāgas on the path of enlightenment.
man dha ra wé shyab la solwa deb
Mandāravā, at your feet I pray!

lhamin semor trulpé pungtsok kün
In your emanation as an asura princess,
dukpé trakdok tulwé kunzang mor
You tamed the hordes of jealous asuras.
drak té lhamin dü tsok mindrol kö
Known as Samantabhadrī, All-Perfect Lady, you ripened the demon asuras and assured their liberation.
man dha ra wé shyab la solwa deb
Mandāravā, at your feet I pray!

ösung drung du changchub chok nyepa
Before Buddha Kāśyapa, you attained supreme awakening.
gyalpo dekyong semor pal tsor trul
Emanating as Śrī Sāgarā, Glorious Ocean—daughter of King Sukhapāla, Protector of Bliss—
gelongma ni bumtrak dzok jang tob
You brought hundreds of thousands of nuns to perfect awakening.
man dha ra wé shyab la solwa deb
Mandāravā, at your feet I pray!

shakya tubten par trulpa nyishu nga
At the time of Buddha Śākyamuni’s teachings, you manifested twenty-five emanations;
dé lé yangtrul sam mi khyabpar dzé
Your re-emanations were inconceivable, defying the imagination.
sang ngak tekpé drollam go kün ché
You flung wide every door to the Secret Mantra’s path of liberation.
man dha ra wé shyab la solwa deb
Mandāravā, at your feet I pray!

dené nubchok dechen shyingkham né
Then, from the eastern buddhafield, Sukhāvatī, realm of great bliss,
sang ngak tönpa jewa trak bum trul
You emanated Secret Mantra teachers by the trillion.
dé dang nyampé khandrö ku ré trul
And to accompany each of these you sent your ḍākinī emanations.
man dha ra wé shyab la solwa deb
Mandāravā, at your feet I pray!

tsé pak yum chok gö kar né ngé ö
From the five places of Pāṇḍarāvasinī, supreme consort of Amitāyus,
shyingkham kün trö yingchuk rik ngé trul
Light flooded the pure realms as the fivefold form of Dhātviśvarī, Queen of Space.
jinlab hrih yik zahor yul du trö
Blessings in the form of the syllable hrīḥ streamed into the country of Zahor.
man dha ra wé shyab la solwa deb
Mandāravā, at your feet I pray!

yabyum zik nang milam ngotsar té
Your father and mother had marvelous dreams,
sam mi khyabpa shing po ta da yi
And incredibly—in the year of the male wood-horse, on the tenth of the month—
tsé chur ku trung shyal né yangsal drok
You were born reciting the alphabet.
man dha ra wé shyab la solwa deb
Mandāravā, at your feet I pray!

trung ma tak né yabyum drin chaktsal
As soon as you took birth, you prostrated to your kind parents.
nyenpé lu yi khorwar gyepar kyé
You sang sweet songs, bringing joy to everyone gathered there.
lha yi trü sol nyenpé jikten khyab
The gods came to bathe you, and your fame resounded throughout the world.
man dha ra wé shyab la solwa deb
Mandāravā, at your feet I pray!

kyé ga na chi dukngal zikpa yi
You saw the sufferings of birth, old age, sickness, and death.
kyoshé drakpö khorwar lo dok té
Intense weariness arose in you, and your mind turned from saṃsāra.
damchö rigpé né ngar khepar jang
You excelled in your studies of the five sciences and the sacred Dharma.
man dha ra wé shyab la solwa deb
Mandāravā, at your feet I pray!

lobpön drimé pak mö lungten shyin
As foretold by the prophecies of Ācārya Vimala and Vajravārāhī,
go ta ma yi mutek khyab sal du
You debated with the tīrthika named Gautama, Refuter of All5.
tsöpa drenpé mutek golwa chom
Soundly you defeated him and your other opponents.
man dha ra wé shyab la solwa deb
Mandāravā, at your feet I pray!

zahor bumo sumgya chö la kul
In Zahor, you led three hundred women to the Dharma,
pal dé tsedé yabyum dukngal sal
You dispelled the suffering of the king and queen at the death of Prince Śrīsena,
dramzé sha nyé ten gyi tsowor zung
And you found Brahmin flesh—which you kept as a sacred substance.
man dha ra wé shyab la solwa deb
Mandāravā, at your feet I pray!

bé ta zahor trukpa tab kyi dum
You reconciled the warring factions in Vedalī and Zahor.
gö kar lungten khoryok chö la tsü
You established the people in the Dharma, as Pāṇḍarāvasinī had predicted.
khorwar kyowé tukkyé mönlam tab
Weary of saṃsāra, you made prayers and aspirations.
man dha ra wé shyab la solwa deb
Mandāravā, at your feet I pray!

chok kyi nyemo long té yab dang drö
When discussing with your father the requests for your hand in marriage,
khorwar mi chak dorsem lungten tob
You had already abandoned saṃsāra, and you received a prophecy from Vajrasattva.
tab kyi drö té khenpor rabtu jung
With great skill you escaped and took ordination from the abbot Śāntarakṣita.
man dha ra wé shyab la solwa deb
Mandāravā, at your feet I pray!

do chö kün jang kholmo ngabgya ché
You became learned in the Dharma of sūtra and, with five hundred attendants,
kün ga rawar denö ché pel dzé
You expounded the tripiṭika within the confines of a nunnery.
pejung trulpé jinlab lungten tob
You then received blessings and prophecies from Padmākara.
man dha ra wé shyab la solwa deb
Mandāravā, at your feet I pray!

kyo sang jönpé orgyen ngö dang jal
Out among the flowers, you met the master of Uḍḍiyāna.
dendrang chö shyü tsé nawa dzi tong
Leading him to his throne, you requested the Dharma.
kurdeb la yok gyalpö chepa pok
A cowherd noticed, and slander began to spread,And the king took action to have the two of you
punished.
man dha ra wé shyab la solwa deb
Mandāravā, at your feet I pray!

pejung sön sek shyü kyang dzutrul ten
They tried to burn Padmākara alive, but he thwarted them with miracles.
gyal lön nonggyö yabyum lhenchik shyuk
Ashamed and sad, king and ministers repented, And the Guru was invited to live with the king
and queen.
yab kyi orgyen lhacham pulwar dzé
Then, the king offered his daughter to the Master of Uḍḍiyāna.
man dha ra wé shyab la solwa deb
Mandāravā, at your feet I pray!

zahor gyalkham po nam orgyen kor
The men of Zahor became followers of Uḍḍiyāna’s master,
mo nam lhacham chö ten tamché drol
And Mandāravā taught the Dharma to the women.
lobpön dampé lhacham rabtu min
Thus all gained liberation—and you, through the Master’s instructions, reached perfect maturity.
man dha ra wé shyab la solwa deb
Mandāravā, at your feet I pray!

chö drö da chö tong né pejung dang
You saw the signs that told you to escape and practice the Dharma,
lhenchik drakpuk ma ra tikar jön
And together with Padmākara you left for Māratika Cave.
chimé tsé yi rigdzin ngön du drub
There you accomplished immortality, vidyādhara mastery over life.
man dha ra wé shyab la solwa deb
Mandāravā, at your feet I pray!

ko tala yul dzutrul tab kyi tul
In Kotala, you tamed beings by miraculous means,
mutek tönpé tu lerab tu gyal
Victorious, curtailing the powers of heretic teachers.
yongdü tsal du gek tsok dam la shyak
In the Pārijāta grove you bound hordes of obstructors.
man dha ra wé shyab la solwa deb
Mandāravā, at your feet I pray!

pejung lungten ko'u ma ri la jön
In line with Padmākara’s prophecy, you left for the mountains of Cāmara.
sinpo pomo tamché chö la kö
There you led all the male and female demons to the Dharma.
jalü drub té yul kham tongpar gyur
Each attained rainbow body, and the land was left empty.
man dha ra wé shyab la solwa deb
Mandāravā, at your feet I pray!

ngampa tsal chen lasok yul chen gyé
In the Eight Great Places such as the Great Awe-Inspiring Grove,
ki la drok sok yul chung gyé nam su
And in the Eight Lesser Lands such as the one renowned as Kīla,
ku yi dzutrul ché gyé chung gyé ten
You revealed your miraculous emanations – eight major and eight minor.
man dha ra wé shyab la solwa deb
Mandāravā, at your feet I pray!

dené pejung yabyum lhenchik tu
Then, together with Guru Padmākara, you traveled to the land of Uḍḍiyāna,
orgyen yul jön lokta tab kyi nub
Crushing those of wrong view through skillful means.
chökhor korwé lhakmé ja kur drol
You turned the wheel of Dharma, and all without exception were liberated into rainbow body.
man dha ra wé shyab la solwa deb
Mandāravā, at your feet I pray!

gurü lungten sham bha la ru jön
Following the Guru’s prophecy you traveled to Śambhala,
ling chen nyernga dzutrul khoné tul
Taming the beings of the twenty-five lands solely through miracles.
kalden bumtrak chusum ja kur drol
In this way, fortunate beings—one million and three hundred thousand—were liberated into rainbow
body.
man dha ra wé shyab la solwa deb
Mandāravā, at your feet I pray!

dené bhé jé ya ri tsemor jön
Next, you left for Bhejé, to Slate Rock mountain peak,
dampa lhakma malü dzokpar nang
Where the remaining instructions in their entirety were bestowed to perfection.
trulpé utpal kar mar bal bö trö
Then, in Nepal and Tibet, you came as a red-white utpala flower.
man dha ra wé shyab la solwa deb
Mandāravā, at your feet I pray!

lhakmé ja kur namkhé long du yal
Your rainbow body dissolved without remainder into the expanse of space.
womin pemo kö du rab shek né
You departed to Padmavyūhā, Lotus Array
yum chok sangwa yeshe ku ru gyur
Where you became the supreme consort, Guhyajñānā, Secret Wisdom.
man dha ra wé shyab la solwa deb
Mandāravā, at your feet I pray!

lob bang rigdzin gugya lhenchik tu
Together with nine hundred followers—all awareness-holders—
ja kur tim né trulpé dönjé gyur
You dissolved into rainbow body and sent emanations to benefit beings.
gang dul khandrö trulpa gyün ma ché
Thus,your ḍākinī emanations go on endlessly, taming beings.
man dha ra wé shyab la solwa deb
Mandāravā, at your feet I pray!

dewachen du gö kar sang yé yum
In Sukhāvatī, you are Pāṇḍarāvasinī, the secret wisdom consort.
khachö né su gar gyi wangmor drak
In Khecarī, you are Nāṭyeśvarī, the renowned Lady of Dance.
zahor yul du dung men karmo shyé
In the country of Zahor, your name is White Conch Medicine.
man dha ra wé shyab la solwa deb
Mandāravā, at your feet I pray!

dak sok kyé dang tserab tamché du
May I and all others, throughout all our lifetimes,
yum chok dakki khyö dang mindral shying
Never be apart from you, Ḍākinī and Supreme Mother!
nekab tartuk jikpa kün drol té
Liberated from all fears, both temporary and ultimate,
namtar drub né ngön sangyé par dzö
Thus shall we attain complete liberation and awakening!

mitün kün shyi barché malü shyi
Bless us, that all misfortunes and obstacles are pacified!
samdön nyur drub shyendön tarchin né
Bless us, that all our wishes be quickly fulfilled!
khorwé né tong gyalyum gopang la
Others’ benefit accomplished, may saṃsāra be emptied!
göpé tu nü drubpar jingyi lob
Through your blessing, may we all accomplish the Victorious Mother!

For those who persevere with one-pointed attention who do not waver from these words, all misdeeds
and failings accumulated throughout lifetimes will be completely purified. Perfecting
the good qualities of the grounds and paths, they will meet with the Ḍākinī, and will quickly
attain the supreme and common accomplishments. Without exception, obstacles, diseases,
evil spirits—all will be averted, arisen from previous karma. These beings will enjoy
the riches of long life, good health, and luxuries. All will be spontaneously accomplished.
Have no doubt—the Mother will guide us to rebirth in Sukhāvatī, realm of bliss. Therefore,
beings of the future, including the people of Tibet, who copy out or read this story of
liberation, or who make sincere prostrations and aspirations to it, will see their every
wish spontaneously fulfilled. If there is rampant disease, conflict and war, drought or ruined
harvest,—read aloud this inspirational story of liberation. As a result, plagues will
end, fighting subside, and harvests will be bountiful. If people cast nefarious curses, incite
demonic spells, or mutter maledictory hexes—sing out and recite this story; they will
resolve into peacefulness, right where they stand. If untimely death oppresses you, read
this story a hundred times—and all obstacles to this life will be dispelled. If poverty and
misery prevail, or loss of livestock, reading this will appease all loss and bring joy
in great abundance. If progeny is wished for—by reading this story, your family line will
flourish. Furthermore, the very merit of carrying this story of liberation will ensure that
you accomplish your every aim. Wherever this text is found – in monastery, countryside,
town, or family home – for several miles in all directions, ghosts and demons will be powerless
to draw near. If recited a hundred times for your own benefit at the time of death,
you will be freed from the lower realms, thus gaining higher rebirth in the land of Khecharī.
The benefits of this story are inconceivable, beyond expression. Thus using words to express
them is to no avail. If this story is worn on the body, obscurations will not stick
and will be liberated instantly. Weapons will not terrorize, and poison will lose all potency.
Abscesses, contracted sores, leprosy, and boils – all will be cured. Sickness, demonic
forces, obstructors of all kinds—all will be immobilized, unable to cause harm. If this
story is read while traveling, all harm from enemies, bandits, treacherous paths and obstacles—all
will be pacified. By continuously making prostrations to it, circumambulating and
making offerings to it, have no doubt—you will certainly reach Sukhāvatī, realm of bliss.
Be diligent in this, you beings of the future! Samaya! From The Jewel Garland, the liberation
story of Mandāravā, the Princess of Zahor. This is the thirty-seventh chapter, the Prayer
of Mandāravā’s Lives and Liberation. Seal! Seal! Seal! Seal! Seal! Seal!

| Lhasey Lotsawa Translations, 2017. (Translated by Stefan Mang and Kaleb Yaniger. Edited by
Libby Hogg.)
↑ The following prayer forms the 37th chapter of her terma biography entitled “A Garland of
Jewels: The lives and liberation of Princess Mandāravā, daughter of the King of Zahor as told
by Guru Padma” (za hor rgyal po’i sras mo lha lcam man dha ra ba’i rnam par thar pa gu
ru pad+ma’i zhal lung rin chen phreng ba) as revealed by Samten Lingpa. For a complete translation
of the work, see: Padmasambhava, The Lives and Liberation of Princess Mandarava,
translated by Lama Chonam and Sangye Khandro (Boston: Wisdom Publications, 1998).↑ All-Pervading
Jewels (rin chen brdal ba)↑ Adorning Light (’od zer snang rgyan)↑ Sacred White Zenith
(dam pa tog dkar)↑ Refuter of All (khyab bsal)