A Prayer to Goddess Parṇaśavarī
by Karma Chakmé

Namo piśācyai!
dü sum sangye kyepé yum
Mother of the buddhas of the three times,
yumchen sherab parchin ma
Great mother Prajñāpāramitā,
zuk kyi kur tön drowé gön
Appearing in a body of form as a protector of beings,
loma gyön mar chaktsal tö
Parṇaśavarī, to you I offer homage and praise!

drangmé gong né sangye kyang
Despite having attained Buddhahood countless eons ago,
sa gyé sem mé tsul tön shying
You appear as a female bodhisattva of the eighth bhūmi.
gyalwé trinlé drub dzé ma
Accomplisher of the enlightened activities of the buddhas,
ser dokchen mar chaktsal tö
Goddess of golden form, to you I offer homage and praise!

gyagar ritrö dang gawar
In delightful wilderness of India,
shinglo sarpé gö nab né
You garbed yourself in a cloak of fresh leaves,
pakpa mipam drub dzé ma
And performed the practice of Ārya Ajita.1
rik ngak drub ma khyö chaktsal
Accomplisher of vidyā-mantra, to you I offer homage!

duktsub tamché shyidzé ching
You pacify all forms of malevolence,
tashi delek jin dzé ma
And bestow auspiciousness, happiness and peace.
parna shawa ri shyepé
Goddess known as Parṇaśavarī,
lhamo khyö la chaktsal tö
To you I offer homage and praise!

dak dang lobma gyüpar ché
We—master, disciples and retinue—
lhamo khyö la kyab sol gyi
Take refuge in you, O Goddess.
yam né rimné chukné lé
May you always protect us
taktu khyö kyi sungwar dzö
From all epidemics and disease among humans and livestock!

When I was pouring a hundred libations as part a pacifying fire puja, and it came time to pour
multiple offerings to Parṇaśavarī, I saw a full-figured lady the colour of burnished gold
and bedecked with various ornaments. I felt that she was my mother and dreamt that I suckled
on her breast. On the basis of that vision, I, Arāga, put this into writing.

| Translated by Abraham Ta-Quan, 2021.

Source: karma chags med. "lha mo paR+Na sha ba ri'i gsol 'debs/." In gsung 'bum/_karma chags
med/ (gnas mdo dpe rnying nyams gso khang /). BDRC W1KG8321. Volume 42: 437–438

Version: 1.0-20210706
↑ i.e., Maitreya.