A Prayer Recalling the Life and Liberation of the Great Perfection Adept Rangjung Dorje (‘Naturally
Arisen Vajra’), Jigme Lingpa
by Jigme Lingpa

sishyi kün gyi gönpo chenrezik
To Avalokiteśvara, lord of all saṃsāra and nirvāṇa,
chomden ösung drung na kri kri sé
To the son of King Kṛkin who went before Buddha Kāśyapa,1
shakya tubpé chéda chunggawo
To Nanda, the younger half-brother of Śākyamuni,
drachom tsen zang den la solwa deb
And to the arhat Tsen Zangden, I pray!

tek chok tönpa garab shiri seng
To Garab Dorjé and Śrī Siṃha, teachers of the Supreme Vehicle,
drimé shenyen songtsen akarma
To Vimalamitra and Akaramati2 who was emanated by Songtsen Gampo,
jebang drok sum gyalsé lharjé gyü
The king Trisong Deutsen, subject Vairocana, companion Yeshe Tsogyal, and Gyalsé Lharjé—
namtrul dumar shar la solwa deb
To you who appeared in these various manifestations, I pray!

shyönnu roltsé dü né nyingjé dang
From when you played games as a child, you were compassionate,
ngejung kyoshé drakpö gyü len té
And your mind was filled with intense renunciation and disenchantment.
wenpa khonar möpé shyenlok gi
Through your disgust for saṃsāra and longing only for solitude,
dudzi yul lé gyal la solwa deb
You were victorious in the battle against mindless entertainment—to you I pray!

nyishu tsangé loné tsok jor lam
From your twenty-fifth year, you traversed the paths of accumulation and joining,
mögü nyingjé kyedzok tablam la
And, through enduring hardships while cultivating devotion and compassion
drubpé katub tenpé chönyi dön
And following the path of skilful means on the generation and perfection stages,
manor ngönsum tong la solwa deb
You saw the dharmatā nature of reality directly and unerringly—to you, I pray!

pal gyi samyé chimpü gé'u ru
When, in a cave at glorious Samyé Chimphu,
künkhyen shyalzik lungten tobpé mö
You beheld the omniscient Longchenpa, and received prophecies,
jita jinyé pobpé ter drol té
The treasure of courageous eloquence regarding the nature and multiplicity of things was unlocked,
ngönpé ngagyal zé la solwa deb
And the pride of conceit3 faded away—to you, I pray!

nying ten rimö marmé tar gyur dü
When the Nyingma teachings had become just like a painted candle,
gyübum lekbam dzok dang chöjung trün
You compiled the tantras, produced a history of Dharma,
do gyu sem sum nyingtik kater gyi
And upheld without fail the teachings of Kama and Terma,
tenpa manor dzin la solwa deb
The Heart Essence, the Sūtra, Illusory Net and Mind4—to you I pray!

ngagyur drubta chöluk natsok kyi
When the Nyingma tenets were sullied and denigrated
nyokmar gyur la shyen dé shungwé tsé
By various other traditions,
yönten rinchen dzö kyi shingta ché
Your great chariots of the Treasury of Precious Qualities5
rang dé drubta long la solwa deb
Elevated our own tenets—to you I pray!

töpa nyung dang lodrö lünpo nam
Those of little learning and limited intelligence
trönpé lak dro mongpé chok dzin yang
Hold only partial views, just like the frog that lived in a well.6
khé dang dampé gyukar chenpö ü
Yet amidst the constellations of scholars and holy beings,
tenpé nyinjé bar la solwa deb
You blaze like the sun of the teachings—to you I pray!

gangshyik pakpé pang tok nyepa nam
Noble ones, who have obtained qualities of freedom and realization,
namtok ranggyü lé dé chönyi chir
Transcend ordinary concepts, since they abide in reality.
gomjung sherab dawa nyagang né
Thus, when your prajñā born of meditation became as complete as a full moon,
chö kyi terdzö nyé la solwa deb
You gained a treasure trove of Dharma—to you I pray!

wenpa khonar bé kyang lechen nam
You remained in solitude, but still those with karmic fortune
tso la ngangpa jishyin ring né du
Gathered from afar, like swans drawn to a lake.
kalmé taktu nyen kyang mi tul na
Those without fortune, no matter how close, cannot be tamed,
mangpö tsok pön pang la solwa deb
And so you renounce positions of leadership—to you, I pray!

nok chung tsé di püntsok la mik né
Thinking of the trifling concerns that are the bounties of this life,
jikten chö dang tünpar mi juk kyang
You do not try to combine worldly ways with Dharma,
namtar ngokok pangpé tulshyuk la
But practise pure yogic discipline, free from hypocrisy—
sarahapa gyé la solwa deb
To you whose ways would delight Saraha himself, I pray!

lona tung yang ten drö dön la tsön
Though beings are short-tempered, you strive to benefit them and the teachings.
yangdak lam juk chö tsul tsam mi mö
Not belittling basic Dharma methods for setting out upon the genuine path,
tö ngak kurti mi kheng drokur gyi
And not becoming arrogant through praise and respect—
jikdral pawo khyé la solwa deb
To you, a warrior unafraid of flattery or disparagement, I pray!

déshin dzé la zijin mi drub ching
You do not make a show of offerings received out of devotion or on behalf of the dead,
kangyur lasok ku sung tuk ten trün
But produce representations of enlightened body, speech and mind, such as the Buddha’s Words.
méwön né la tri chö sok lu sok
Make myriad offerings at the sacred sites of the ancestral kings, liberate lives, and so on—
dreltsé dönden jor la solwa deb
To you, who benefits all with whom you are connected, I pray!

nyamjé küntu chakdang redok kyi
In meditation and post-meditation alike, you are unperturbed
khyö sem trukpa mayin wangpo la
By attachment or aversion, hope or fear.
chenrezik gön shyukpé jinlab kyi
Through your blessing, Avalokiteśvara in the flesh,
dro dön khorwa dongtruk la solwa deb
You benefit beings and dredge the depths of saṃsāra—to you I pray!

dadung semchen kham ni madzokpar
Yet still, until beings’ realms are brought to perfection,
shyendön jungwa changchub sem nyi kyi
You act for beings’ benefit. Since the special power
khyechö luwa mepa yinpé chir
Of the two kinds of bodhicitta is undeceiving,
duljar magyur semchen yö min yang
There is no being who is not your disciple,

lobmar gyur né damtsik dakpa dang
But still, I pray: having become your disciple, may I keep my samaya pure,
ka shyin drub né tuk yi drepa nam
And act as commanded; may my mind merge with your wisdom,
tserab küntu dralmé tendrel drik
Throughout all my lives, may circumstances be right for us to never part,
nampar gyalwachen dang yermé shok
And may I become indivisible from you, the Buddha ‘Completely Victorious’!

To avoid refusing the insistent request of the fortunate disciple from Domé, Jikmé Trinlé Özer,
I wrote this with an emphasis on what is positive.

| Translated by Han Kop, with the generous help of Lama Sherab Tarchin from Dodrupchen Monastery.
With thanks to Stefan Mang. Edited by Aaron Cote and Adam Pearcey.

Version: 1.2-20211007
↑ The son of King Kṛkin generated bodhicitta in Kāśyapa’s presence and received a prophecy of
his future enlightenment.↑ Songtsen Gampo emitted a ray of light from between his eyebrows,
at the tip of which he sent an emanation, the monk Akaramati[śīla], to travel to Nepal
in order to find four Self-Arisen Avalokiteśvara statues that had been hidden there↑ The
pride of feeling one possesses a quality one does not possess.↑ This refers to the Anuyoga
root text, the Sūtra Which Gathers All Intentions, the Mahāyoga root tantra, the Web of Magical
Illusion, and the Atiyoga root tantra of Semdé, 'The All-Creating King' (Kunjé Gyalpo).↑
This is a reference to Jigme Lingpa’s two commentaries on his own treatise known as
the Treasury of Precious Qualities (Yon tan mdzod). The commentaries are called The Chariot
of the Two Truths (bden gnyis shing rta) and The Chariot of Omniscience (rnam mkhyen shing
rta).↑ See The Words of My Perfect Teacher (Boston: Shambhala, 1998) p. 140.