A Prayer to the Vidyādhara Gurus
from A Shower of Precious Blessings: A Garland of Supplications to Guru Rinpoche, Embodiment
of All Refuge Objects, and to the Three Roots and Lineage Masters
by Chokgyur Dechen Lingpa

emaho, chöying nampar dakpé shyingkham su
Emaho—O wonder! In the immaculate dharmadhātu realm,
kyemé chöku dakpé podrang né
Within the palace of dharmakāya, pure and unborn,
chöku kuntuzangpo la solwa deb
Dharmakāya Samantabhadra: to you I pray!
kyemé chöku tokpar jingyi lob
Bless me that I may realize the birthless Dharma body!

womin tukpo köpé shyingkham su
In the Densely-Ornamented Realm of Akaniṣṭha,
timuk namdak melong podrang né
Within the mirror-like palace of immaculate ignorance,
sangye nampar nang dzé la solwa deb
Buddha Vairocana: to you I pray!
timuk namdak tokpar jingyi lob
Bless me that I may realize the utter purity of ignorance!

sharchok ngönpar gawé shyingkham su
In the eastern pure realm of Profound Joy,
shyedang namdak tongnyi podrang né
Within the emptiness palace of immaculate anger,
sangye dorjé sempa la solwa deb
Buddha Vajrasattva: to you I pray!
shyedang namdak tokpar jingyi lob
Bless me that I may realize the utter purity of anger!

lhochok palden dzepé shyingkham su
In the southern pure realm of Glorious Beauty,
ngagyal namdak nyamnyi podrang né
Within the equality palace of immaculate pride,
sangye rinchen jungden la solwa deb
Buddha Ratnasambhava: to you I pray!
ngagyal namdak tokpar jingyi lob
Bless me that I may realize the utter purity of pride!

nubchok dewachen gyi shyingkham su
In the western pure realm of Great Bliss,
döchak namdak sortok podrang né
Within the discriminating palace of immaculate desire,
sangye nangwa tayé la solwa deb
Buddha Amitābha: to you I pray!
döchak namdak tokpar jingyi lob
Bless me that I may realize the utter purity of desire!

jangchok lerab dzokpé shyingkham su
In the northern pure realm of Fulfilled Activity,
trakdok namdak ja drub podrang né
Within the all-accomplishing palace of immaculate jealousy,
sangye dön yö drubpa la solwa deb
Buddha Amoghasiddhi: to you I pray!
trakdok namdak tokpar jingyi lob
Bless me that I may realize the utter purity of jealousy!

sempa gyé dang sangye tong tsa dang
Eight male bodhisattvas, thousand buddhas,
sem ma gyé sok longku tulkü shying
Eight female bodhisattvas, and all others
sangye changsem nam la solwa deb
Of the saṃbhogakāya and nirmāṇakāya pure realms—to you I pray!
dak gyü jin lab shyen gyü drolwa dang
Let my mindstream be blessed and others' mindstreams liberated!
trinlé chok chur gyepar jingyi lob
Bless us so enlightened activity spreads throughout the ten directions!

dü sum deshek tamché chikdü pé
Precious Padmākara, venerable guru who singly embodies
jetsün guru pema rinpoche
All sugatas throughout the three times;
lobpön gyé dang ma chik tsogyalma
Eight ācāryas and sole mother Lady Tsogyal;
lo pen jebang nam la solwa deb
Lotsawas, paṇḍitas, lord and subjects—to you I pray!

kyedzok tarchin tsalung ngöngyur né
Bless me that by perfecting generation and completion,
chimé tsé yi ngödrub tob né su
And actualizing the subtle channels and winds,
tsé dir jalü drubpar jingyi lob
I attain the siddhi of immortality and accomplish rainbow body in this very life!

chögyal rim jön terchen tertren dang
Succession of Dharma kings, major and minor tertöns,
kater gyüpé lama rigdzin sok
Vidyādhara gurus of the Scriptural and Treasure Lineages,
gya bö rimé lamar solwa deb
All gurus of all traditions of India and Tibet—to you I pray!
daknang tsöndrü kyewar jingyi lob
Bless me that pure perception and diligence may grow!

longkü shying du tönpa dorjé sem
Teacher Vajrasattva of the saṃbhogakāya realm;
tubpé nyentö lak na dorjé dang
Śrāvakas who listen to the Muni; Vajrapāṇi;
pejung drung du gyalsé mu rub tsen
Murub Tsenpo, bodhisattva in Padmasambhava’s presence;
zabter ngadak sangye lingpa chok
Supreme Sangyé Lingpa, sovereign of profound treasures;
yangtrul rigdzin mingyur dorjé dang
Re-emanated vidyādhara, Mingyur Dorjé;
gu drak kabab rigdzin chokgyur ling
Vidyādhara Chokgyur Lingpa, who holds the transmission of Guru Drakpo;
ma ong tertön drimé künden dang
And future treasure revealers Drimé Künden
sangye möpachen la solwa deb
And Sangyé Möpachen—to you I pray!
dreltsé dön dang denpar jingyi lob
Grant your blessings that all encounters be beneficial!

jingyi lob shik lama rigdzin tsok
Assembly of vidyādhara gurus, grant your blessings!
barché sol chik rigdzin sangye ling
Vidyādhara Sangyé Lingpa, dispel all obstacles!
ngödrub tsol chik mingyur dorjé tsal
Mighty Mingyur Dorjé, grant the siddhis!
trinlé gyé shik rigdzin chokgyur ling
Vidyādhara Chokgyur Lingpa, perpetuate enlightened activity!
khyé kyi jedzin bulob dakchak la
Upon us, the disciples whom you embrace with care,
jingyi lob shik drinchen lama jé
Gracious lord gurus, bestow your blessings!
tsé chik sangye drubpar dzé du sol
Help us attain awakening within this very life!

This was composed by vidyādhara Chokgyur Lingpa in the retreat house at Dewatsal, in response
to repeated requests by the vidyāmantradhara Rigdzin Paljor. It was transcribed by the petitioner
himself.

| Lhasey Lotsawa Translations (trans. Oriane Sherap Lhamo and Laura Dainty, ed. Libby Hogg),
2020.