A Short Prayer Based on the Life and Liberation of the All-Knowing, All-Seeing Jamyang Khyentse
Wangpo
by Katok Situ Chökyi Gyatso

Namo guru mañjughoṣāya!

gangjong tendzin yong kyi tsuk gi gyen
Crown adornment of all the holders of the teachings in the Land of Snows,
künzik jamyang khyentsé wangpo ni
All-seeing Jamyang Khyentse Wangpo,
derge ter lhung nyö rik ku trung shing
You were born into the Nyö family in Terlhung in Derge.
tsenden lama gya dang ngabchu ten
You followed1 a hundred and fifty authentic teachers,
sar nying chö tsul pö chen düngya sen
And received more than seven hundred volumes of the Sarma and Nyingma teachings.
ridral drubta kün gyi ten sok zung
Without sectarian bias, you revitalised the teachings of all schools
sol luk sosö sok né zinpa yi
And maintained the vital points of each individual tradition,
dampa mang jön kyechok di yi drin
So that numerous eminent masters appeared—such is your kindness, sublime one.
di lé ten gyün penpé gön su shyik
Who else has been such a protector? Of such service to the stream of teachings?

di yi trinlé gyü né sa chen khyab
Your activity has permeated the entire world.
khyepar drubwang tangtong gyalpo né
In particular, you sedulously received the whispered transmissions passed down without interruption
da bar machepé nyengyü nam
From the lord of siddhas Thangtong Gyalpo himself,
nenten nö né tuk nyam lek tar té
And applied them perfectly in practice.
damngak shyen lé sangchö nyengyü la
You held the Whispered Transmission of Secret Conduct to be
khepar shyal gyi shyé né kalden kyang
More effective than other instructions; you nurtured fortunate disciples
nyengyü di yi tenpé dakpo drub
And became a master of these Whispered Transmission teachings.

tangtong drubtab nyingpo kor nga dang
The fivefold cycle of essential sādhanas,2
drubtob tuk tik kagyé gönpo sok
The Essence of the Mahāsiddha's Wisdom Mind,3 Kagyé, Mahākāla and  the rest—
yeshe kuchen dé dang yermé par
Indivisible from the master in his wisdom form,
gonggyü jinlab pa pok tuk la pö
You received the patrimonial blessings of these mind-direct transmission as they were transferred
into your wisdom mind.

shé gyü chu dang drubgyü shingta gyé
The tenfold lineage of exposition, the eight chariots of the practice lineage,
kabab dün dang khyepar tangtong pé
The seven major transmissions and especially
kabab gyé dang kabab ngaden gyi
The five and eight transmissions of Thangtong Gyalpo—
tön chok ösal trulpé dorjér dü
Supreme teacher of them all, Ösal Trulpé Dorje, to you I bow.

khyen rab chenpö yongdzok ten né zik
With vast wisdom you saw the crucial points of all the teachings,
tsewa chenpö drangmé dulja min
With vast love you brought countless disciples to maturity,
nütu chenpö lalo dukchen dok
With vast power you drove away malevolent barbarians—
khedrub chenpo khyé kyi jingyi lob
Great scholar and adept, inspire me with your blessings!

Thus, Katok Situ Chökyi Gyatso Shedrup Tenpé Nyima wrote this at the place of the Mahāsiddha's
enlightened speech, the lama's residence at glorious Chuwori. May it prove virtuous!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2022.

Source: chos kyi rgya mtsho . "spang ston kun bzang tshe dbang / yongs 'dzin blo bzang bstan
'phel / bstan 'dzin chos rje brgyad pa/ 'jam dbyangs mkhyen brtse'i dbang po dang bzhi'i
rnam thar gsol 'debs chos kyi rgya mtshos mdzad pa/ (ma)." In gsung 'bum/_thang stong rgyal
po. Thimphu: Kunsang Topgey, 1976 (BDRC W23919). Vol. 1: 175–177.

Version: 1.0-20220117
↑ Reading brten as bsten.↑ sgrub chen snying po skor lnga, part of the Essence of the Mahāsiddha's
Wisdom Mind (grub thob thugs tig).↑  Tib. Grub thob thugs tig