Averting Obstructive Circumstances
A Prayer to Tārā
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

om, palmo khyö tsen yi la drenpa yi
Oṃ. Glorious one, as I recall your name,
jikpa tadak nyurdu shyidzé ching
Act swiftly to pacify all fears and dangers.
dön nyi bemé drub ter chok jin ma
Supreme giver, effortlessly bestowing twofold benefit,
lama jetsün drolmar solwa deb
Exalted and reverend Tārā, to you I pray.

gyalpo mé chu chak drok duk tsön dang
Tyrants, fires, drowning, captivity, poison and weaponry,
drul dang sengé langchen shaza dang
Snakes, lions, elephants and flesh-eating spirits,
chomkün sinpo jungpo ro long sok
Thieves, robbers, demons, elemental forces, zombies and the rest—
jikpa kyab dzé drolmar solwa deb
To Tārā, who guards against all such dangers, I pray.

drowa gangshyik tsé yi ulwa dang
For those whose power of life is depleted,
timuk münpé tibpé dro nam la
Or who are shrouded in delusion’s darkness,
da shyal dütsi nangwa kyewé mö
You display your radiant moon-like face and immediately
tsé dang yeshe jin la solwa deb
Bestow longevity and wisdom—to you, I pray.

mar sal pema ragé özer gyi
With a hook of light rays, ruby-red and brilliant,
chakkyü sishyi püntsok guk dzé ching
You capture all that is excellent in existence and peace.
kün la wanggyur takpé gyalmo cher
Great sovereign, enduring and universally powerful—
drolma nyurma pamor solwa deb
To tārā, who is swift and courageous, I pray.

shyi lé ma yö nyingjé tröpa yi
Never wavering from peace, you wear a frown
tronyer yo dang hung gi dra drakpé
Of compassionate wrath and proclaim the sound of Hūṃ.
dü dang gek nam malü jom dzé ma
Vanquisher of all māras and obstructing forces—
drolma drak jé chenmor solwa deb
To Tārā, who is magnificent and ferocious, I pray.

dewé rö nyö shyepé ngaro dang
Intoxicated with bliss, you roar with laughter,
shyab nyi dabpé jikten dünpö tsok
And stamping both feet, thoroughly suppress
rabtu nön ching kham sum zil gyi nön
The seven worlds and overpower the three realms.
tayé namgyalma la solwa deb
To you whose victory is unbounded, I pray.

gangshyik nor gyi ulwar gyurpa la
For those who are lacking in wealth
nam mang norbü char chen bebpa yi
You bring vast showers of varied riches
pongpé dukngal tadak sel dzepé
And eliminate all the suffering of poverty.
jinpa tarchin pakmar solwa deb
To you, who are noble and perfectly generous, I pray.

khorwé nyepa ché lerab drol shying
Utterly freed from saṃsāra’s major flaws,
zakdral gawa chok gi tser sön ching
You’ve reached the highest level of untainted joy
pomé dewa ché la tak rolpa
And revel in enduring, untransferable great bliss.
tsultrim parchin wangmor solwa deb
To you, the powerful and perfectly ethical, I pray.

khanyam drowé dön la rab zö ching
Embracing the welfare of beings as limitless as space,
kün gyi nyertsé sa shyi tabu yi
You endure harm and injury with earth-like equanimity,
taktu tromé nyingjé yong gangwa
Never angry but always full of compassion,
zöpa katub shyi mar solwa deb
To you, the peaceful and tolerant of hardship, I pray.

kechik tsam yang dalwa mepa yi
Never faltering even for a moment,
drowa drol la rabtu tsönpa gang
Your enthusiasm for freeing beings is intense
khorwa tongpar magyur desi du
And continues until saṃsāra is emptied.
tsöndrü dro drolma la solwa deb
To you, the diligent liberator of beings, I pray.

miyo tingdzin gyatso rab nyé shing
Taking delight in an ocean of unmoving absorption,
nampar chepé toktsok tamché shyi
You’ve pacified all forms of conceptual thought,
nammé dewa chenpö rö nyö ma
And savour the taste of unmediated great bliss.
samten drubpa chenmor solwa deb
To you, the great adept of concentration, I pray.

zab dang gyaché chö kün ngönsum zik
Directly seeing all dharmas, profound and vast,
yeshe gyatso zepa mepé tuk
You possess inexhaustible, ocean-like wisdom,
yönten gyatso sangye kün dang nyam
And vast qualities equal to those of the buddhas.
sherab parchin drolma solwa deb
To you, Tāra of perfect wisdom, I pray.

khyé la taktu depé soldeb tü
Through the power of this, my constant and devoted prayer to you,
dak sok dro nam barché kün lé kyob
May you afford me and other beings protection from every obstacle.
drolmé tukjé taktu jezung né
And may all be auspicious, so that we are ever in Tāra’s care
dön nyi lhün gyi drubpé tashi shok
And the twofold aims of self and other are spontaneously accomplished.

This prayer was made on the sixth day of the seventh month of the Fire Mouse year (1936).

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2020.

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "rje btsun sgrol ma'i gsol 'debs bar chad rkyen bzlog"
in ’Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung ’bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse Labrang, 2012.
W1KG12986 Vol. 3: 5–7