Cloud Banks of Blessings: A Brief Prayer to the Garland of Successive Rebirths (from the Expansive
Treasury of Dharmatā Realization)
by Sera Khandro

emaho
Emaho!
chöying dü majépé kha long né
Out of the uncompounded sky-like expanse of the dharmadhātu,
dang nang magak tong sal tukjé gar
Radiance arises unobstructedly as emptiness and clarity, the play of compassion,
namkün chokden dorjé naljorma
And Vajrayoginī, complete with the supreme of all features,
duljé nang ngor chudé namrol gar
Manifests like the play of the moon in water, to all who need to be trained,
gang dul kur shyeng dzepa tayepa
Taking on infinite forms, according to what is most effective.
dro kham yong drol chok la solwa deb
To the supreme liberator of beings in every realm, I pray!

gyagar pakyul drubpé wangchuk pal
A glorious, accomplished master in the noble land of India
jung ngar wang tob rolang marmo dang
With power over the five elements, Red Vetala,1
rim gyü böyul guru pejung drung
And then, in Tibet, before Guru Padmākara,
ku yi zungma shelkar dorjé tso
His consort, Shelkar Dorje Tso,
mi jé zung tob dé la solwa deb
Who gained the power of unfailing memory—to you I pray!

tsogyal jin tob zabpé ter la wang
With Tsogyal's blessings, you took charge of profound treasures,
künga bumma changchub chödrön sok
And were Kunga Buma, Changchub Chödrön and the rest—
ku treng rimpar gyü la solwa deb
To this garland of successive rebirths, I pray!

böyul ü su bepé naljorpa
In the heart of Tibet you were a hidden yoginī,2
tamal tsul dzin zabpé ter la wang
Appearing ordinary and with mastery of profound treasures,
natsok tab kyi ter nyi dulja kyong
Nurturing, through various means, disciples and the two forms of terma,
gang drel pema ö kyi shying du dren
And leading everyone with a connection to the realm of Lotus Light—
dechen dewé dorjér solwa deb
Dechen Dewé Dorje, to you I pray!

di chi bar sum dralmé jezung né
Care for me, without ever parting, in this life, the next, and the bardo states,
ösal dzogchen gongpa ngöngyur té
Lead me to realize the intent of the Luminous Great Perfection,
kadak kuntuzangpor changchub shok
And awaken as Samantabhadra, pure from the very beginning!

Thus, at the urging of the committed disciple Damchö, and in response to persistent requests
from other students, this was written by Sukhavajra, who was praised in the vajra prophecies
of past masters and who holds the name of a treasure-revealer during this final age.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2019.

Version: 1.2-20211021
↑ ro langs dmar mo, referred to in other texts as ro langs bde rol ma.↑ The Tibetan says yogin,
but the reference seems to be to Sera Khandro herself.