Devotion that Pierces the Heart
A Prayer to the Omniscient Jigme Lingpa
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

om ho yé, je rikgyé khyabdak drowé gön
Oṃ ho ye! Lord, sovereign of the hundred families and protector of beings,
pa drenpé dung sel jikme ling
Father, Jigme Lingpa, remembering you my suffering is relieved.
tsen töpé sipa hrulpor jé
Hearing your name, conditioned existence is torn right through.
jé tödrol chenpor solwa deb
Lord, great liberator upon hearing, to you I pray!

pal pema sambhé lungten ching
You were prophesied by glorious Padmasambhava
jé drimé özer gyé shyal jal
And had visions of the joyful Lord Drimé Özer,
chö désum dzogchen tenpa té
Who entrusted you with the teachings of the three piṭakas and Great Perfection.
gön rangjung dorjér solwa deb
Protector Rangjung Dorje,1 to you I pray!

tuk khyentsé yeshe drima mé
Your mind is immaculate, primordial wisdom of insight and love.
sung chö kyi drayang yong la khyab
Your speech is the all-pervading Dharma song.
ku ngotsar tsenpé nyinmor jé
Your body shines with the major and minor marks, so wondrous.
pa khyentsé özer solwa deb
Father, Khyentse Özer, to you I pray!

lam rimnyi naljor jepa yi
By practising the yogas of the path’s two stages,
tsa tik lung düpa rangdrol bé
The knots of your channels, vital essences, and wind-energies were naturally freed,
khyö ma lab sheja tadak khyen
Enabling you to master, without study, all knowable things.
jé jamyang lamar solwa deb
Lord, Guru Mañjughoṣa, to you I pray!2

chö changchub sem kyi tukgyü jor
Your mind of bodhicitta is rich with Dharma.
khyö drowa kün la bu tar tsé
You love all beings like your very own child
ma semchen kün gyi nyer tsö shyi
And provide for them, all mother-like beings.
gön chenrezik la solwa deb
Protector Avalokiteśvara, to you I pray!

pa khyé kyi tutob da mepé
Father, with your incomparable strength
dü sinpö drongkhyer mong né shyom
You vanquish the cities of demonic rākṣasas.
chok kün lé nampar gyalwé lha
Deity who is victorious over all,
gön lak na dorjér solwa deb
Protector Vajrapāṇi, to you I pray!

kyab tsa sum kündü guru jé
Source of refuge who embodies all the three roots, Lord Guru,
tuk gongpé sangdzö terchen dol
The secret storehouse of your wisdom mind overflows with treasures.
jé nang shyi lam gyi tsemor sön
Lord, you have arrived at the summit of the path of the four visions.
pa dömé gönpor solwa deb
Father, primordial protector, to you I pray!

gön pejung drimé özer gyi
Protector, Lotus-Born Drimé Özer,
tuk ter gyi dampé dzamling khyab
The instructions of your wisdom treasures pervade the whole world.
jé dreltsé dönden trinlé chen
Lord whose activity makes every connection meaningful—
pal pema wangchen solwa deb
Glorious Pema Wangchen, to you I pray!

bu dak gi lo nying drang sumpo
I, your son, from now until awakening,
dü deng né changchub nyingpö bar
With my mind, my heart and soul,3
pa kyab kündü shyal chenpo la
Rely on you and surrender to you entirely,
ré tö ling kyur gyi bul lak na
Father—you are the very face and embodiment of all sources of refuge.

jé lamé yeshe chen gyi zik
Lord Guru, look upon me with your wisdom eye,
dak tukjé chak gi ma dor ang
And do not let your hand of compassion forsake me.
bu dak la kyiduk chi jung yang
Whatever suffering or happiness befalls me, your son,
pa dren chok lama khyerang khyen
Father, supreme object of remembrance, you know me.

dak nyingkha ö ngé long drom du
In the casket of the expanse of five lights within my heart
pa ku sum rangjung dorjé shyuk
Abides the father, the naturally arisen, indestructible three kāyas.
bu riktong gongpé tsal chen dzok
Having perfected the great dynamic energy of awareness and emptiness,
gön kunzang tuk dang yermé shok
May I become indivisible from the wisdom mind of the protector Samantabhadra!

In my thirty-third year, on the first day of the fifth month,4 when I visited the seat of my
Lord Guru, strong faith, joy, and sadness all blended together. Right there in the vicinity
of the Yoru Tradruk temple,5 I, Pema Yeshe Dorje, prayed with ardent devotion. May the
blessings of the guru enter my heart!

| Translated by Han Kop with the kind assistance of Khenpo Tashi Tseten from Namdroling, 2020.

Source: ’Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "kun mkhyen 'jigs med gling par gsol 'debs mos gus snying
gi gzer 'debs" in ’Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung ’bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse
Labrang, 2012. W1KG12986 Vol. 3: 89–90
↑ Rangjung Dorje and, in the next verse, Khyentse Özer, are alternative names of Jigme Lingpa.↑
The deities referred to here and in the two following verses—Mañjuśrī, Avalokiteśvara,
and Vajrapāṇi—are the Lords of the three families.↑ Literally, my mind, heart and chest.↑
This must have been 22 June 1925, when Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö made his first pilgrimage
to Central Tibet.↑ A temple in the Yarlung Valley said to have been built by Songtsen
Gampo. It is one of four so-called 'border taming temples'.