Eliminator of Suffering
A Prayer to the Venerable and Exalted Tārā
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

düsum gyalwa küngyi yum chik ma
Only mother of all the buddhas of the three times,
jetsün drolma nyurma pamo yi
Venerable Tārā, goddess who is swift and gallant,
shyab ten utpal ngönpor gü chö dé
Respectfully I pay homage at the blue lotus beneath your feet:
dak gi lü sem dungwa sal du sol
Clear away the torment that afflicts me physically and mentally, I pray.

khyö ni sangye changsem tamché kyi
In your sublime form you embody the activity
trinlé chik tu düpé rang zuk chok
Of all the buddhas and the bodhisattvas.
arya taré shyal zang drenpé mö
Noble Tāra, as soon as I recall your splendid face,
sipé dukngal malü shyom du sol
Eliminate all the miseries of existence, I pray.

gyé nyi jikpé chuter trukpa lé
When unbearable forces arise like monsters
mi zé chusin tabü dé tsok nam
Out of the turbulent sea of sixteenfold danger,
khyö tsenjö dang odö böpé tsé
As I chant your name and call out to you,
dé ma tak tu kyabpar dzé du sol
Grant me protection there and then, I pray.

tsé dang sherab sönam nor gyi ul
When my longevity, wisdom, merit and funds are depleted,
dön nyam lasok sishyi gelek kyi
In contrast to the universal fortune and virtue I seek,
galdar gyur nam khyö la soltab pé
Then, by calling out to you in heartfelt prayer,
karpö chok kyi cha shyin gyé dzé sol
Cause them to increase like the waxing moon, I pray.

tsultrim dak ching tö sam gompa pel
Make my ethical discipline pure, my study, reflection and meditation grow,
khyen nü tsewé yönten tsal chen dzok
Let my qualities of wisdom, capacity and love reach their full potential,
gyalwa kün gyi trinlé tsalshuk chang
And make me inseparable from you, the venerable goddess
jetsün nyi dang yermé dzé du sol
Who acts with the full force of all the victorious ones, I pray.

dümin chiwé yul lerab gyal shying
Grant me perfect victory in the battle against untimely death,
chimé dorjé sok gi kawa ten
Set firm the pillar of an indestructible and immortal vital force,
drubpé dütsi lü sem tob pal gyé
Let the nectar of accomplishment invigorate my body and mind,
yishyin khorlö ngowo drub tu sol
And let me realize the essence of the Wish-Fulfilling Wheel, I pray.

rimé tubpé tenpa dar shying gyé
Cause the Buddha’s non-sectarian teachings to flourish and spread,
ten la nöpa tronyer chen gyi tul
Show your frown of wrath and subdue all who harm the teachings,
tenpé jindak ngatang rab pel té
Increase the power and influence of Dharma patrons,
dzokden sarpé nangwa char gyur chik
And usher in the golden dawn of a new and perfect age.

dorna dak la kyiduk chi jung yang
In short, in joy as in sorrow, no matter what befalls me,
jetsün chomden dema nyi kyi ni
May you, O venerable and blessed goddess,
kechik tsam yang dralwa mepa dang
Never part from me even for a single instant,
sampé dön kün bemé drubpar shok
And cause all my wishes to be effortlessly fulfilled.

Written by Chökyi Lodrö, a servant of Tārā, on the twelfth day of Saga Dawa in Darjeeling. May
all be virtuous and auspicious!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2020.

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros.  “gsol 'debs skor byin rlabs bdud rtsi'i sprin gyi rol
sgeg (ga)” in gsung thor bu/_'jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros/ (rgya gar bir'i par ma/).
TBRC W21814. 2 vols. Vol. 1: 18a–19a (225–227) & 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "bla ma rje
btsun sgrol ma'i gsol 'debs/" In 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung 'bum. 12 vols.
TBRC W1KG12986. Bir, H.P.: Khyentse Labrang, 2012. Vol. 3: 1–4.