Great Drum of the Devas
A Prayer to the Dharma King Tri Songdetsen
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

om svasti
Oṃ svasti!
tashi kün gyi nang né chokgyur pa
Through the drum of the renowned Three Jewels,
rinchen sum shyé drakpé ngadra dé
The most perfectly sublime among all that is auspicious,
chok dü küntu dé gé khyabpa dang
Let joy and wellbeing reign throughout the whole of space and time,
gelek udum waré shi gyur chik
And the uḍumbara of virtue and excellence herald bounteous fortune!

shakyé rik chok chögyal lha yi sé
Divine heir to the dharma kings of the supreme Śākya line,
tekchen rik sé jampal shyönnü ku
Youthful Mañjuśrī in whom an affinity for Mahāyāna was awakened,
lar yang böyul ten drö gön du jön
You who came to the land of Tibet as a guardian of the teachings and beings,
trisong detsen shyab la solwa deb
Tri Songdeutsen, at your feet I pray.

kawa dumé lo pen chendrang shing
With great difficulty and hardship, you invited translators and scholars,
tsuklak shyeng né tenpé shyima tsuk
Supervised the construction of a temple and established a basis for the teachings.
gé chü trim ché do ngak damchö gyur
You fostered the ten virtues and arranged for the translation of sūtra and mantra—
tsangpa lha yi metok solwa deb
Tsangpa Lhayi Metok, to you I pray.1

böyul münpé ling di karpor gyur
You transformed the land of Tibet from an island of darkness to a beacon of light,
khyepar guru pema jungné lé
And received from Guru Padmasambhava in particular
kagyé lasok sang ngak gyatso nyé
A vast ocean of Secret Mantra, including the Eight Commands—2
nangsi wanggyur chenpor solwa deb
Great prevailer over appearance and existence, to you I pray.

khyenrab jampal yang dang nyisumé
In your perfect wisdom, you are indivisible from Mañjughoṣa,
tsé chen pakchok chak na pemo ngö
In your great love, you are none other than noble Padmapāṇi,
tutob sangdak dorjé dzinpa ché
And in your power, you are the mighty vajra-wielding Lord of Secrets—
rik sum trulpé gyalpor solwa deb
Sovereign manifestation of the three buddha families, to you I pray.

gang gi sang sum jin gyi labpé sé
Your heirs, infused with the blessings of your three secrets,
chögyal rim jön namtrul nga trak sok
Including the five successive emanations of the Dharma king,
ta ü küntu jön dang jön gyur nam
Have appeared and will continue to appear throughout the land—
tro dang duwé jepor solwa deb
Master of emanation and absorption, to you I pray.

danta ché cher nyikmé dü dir yang
Even now, during these increasingly degenerate times,
tenpa rinchen nepa khyö kyi drin
The fact that the teachings endure is due to your kindness.
ngepa nyi lé shyendu mi sempé
Without ever losing sight of this and with firm conviction,
yiché depé solwa nying né deb
I pray to you, confidently and from the depths of my heart.

tukjé chenpö tsalshuk rab truk né
May I incite the strength of your great compassion
nakchok dü kyi dé tsok dulwa dang
So as to overcome the dark forces of Māra’s legions,
khen lob chögyal sum gyi tukkyé nam
And may I and others swiftly fulfil the noble aspirations
dak sok drowé nyurdu drubpar shok
Formed by the abbot, the master and you, the Dharma king!

kyewa küntu jamyang chögyal gyi
May all be auspicious so that throughout the course of all my lives,
jezung khyen nü tsewar wangjor shying
I may be cared for by you, the Mañjughoṣa Dharmarāja,
dön nyi lhündrub tartuk khyé nyi dang
Acquire your wisdom, capacity and love, spontaneously accomplish my own and others’ aims,
yermé ngönjang chubpé tashi shok
And ultimately attain awakening inseparably from you!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2021.

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "chos rgyal khri srong lde'u btsan gyi gsol 'debs/"
in ’Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung ’bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse Labrang, 2012. W1KG12986
Vol. 3: 79–81
↑ Tsangpa Lhayi Metok is the secret name which King Tri Songdetsen is said to have received
from Guru Padmasambhava during an empowerment at Samye Chimphu.↑ Kagyé (bka’ brgyad), also
known as the Eight Herukas.