In Praise of the Eight Siddhas
by Dolpopa Sherab Gyaltsen

When the Omniscient One was staying at the Kyi Pug retreat cave, on the morning of the 15th
day of the 9th month, having recited one round of Evam, in a clear sky appeared a swirling
pavilion of rainbow light with Vajradhara and the Eight Mahāsiddhas appearing in the middle.
Receiving blessings and profound scriptural readings, especially that of the 'Sem Drel
Kor Sum' from Indrabhuti, at that time he recited:
namo guru bhye
Namo Gurubhyaḥ!
namkhé dokchen chöku dorjé chang
Dharmakāya Vajradhara having the colour of the sky,
gying bak rügyen dorjé drilbu dzin
Majestic with bone ornaments, holding a vajra and bell,
khachö kar mar khandro yum dangché
Together with the ḍākinī consort pink Khechari;
pa chok dorjé chang la solwa deb
To the supreme father Vajradhara I praise.

kur gum dangden ludrub dzamling gyen
Nāgārjuna, radiantly saffron, ornament of the Southern Continent,
nak kyi lha mö chimé dütsi pul
With a forest goddess offering the nectar of immortality,
ngödrub nyé né shyendön gyün mi ché
Having gained the attainments, teaching uninterruptedly for the benefit of others;
khé chok drubchen shyab la solwa deb
To the great accomplished one of supreme space I praise.

indra bhu ti jangngön duwé dok
Indrabhūti, the colour of bluish smoke,
gyalrik chöpa orgyen né su shyuk
Dwelling in the land of Orgyan in the manner of royalty,
sé dang lhenchik khachö shying du shek
Together with [his] son departing for Khechara;
sang ngak tendzin la solwa deb
To the holder of the teachings of Secret Mantra I praise.

gyalwé chok tam bi heruka
Ḍombī Heruka, the supreme prince,
muknak cherbü dzutrul tak la shyön
Maroon and naked, riding on an emanated tiger,
dingwa ting né chuwo gangga gal
Crossing the Ganges River seated on a mat;
dzutrul wang tob shyab la solwa deb
To the feet of the Lord of emanated power I praise.

dramzé chenpo palden sa ra ha
Saraha, glorious great Brahmin, golden in colour,
ser dok nyönmong bik da chö ching
Using an arrow to pierce afflictions,
pal gyi ri yi né su namkhar shek
Flying in the sky to the land of Śrī Parvati;
lungsem wang tob la solwa deb
To the One who has obtained the power of air-mind I praise.

drubchen ré mé dokchen drilbu pa
Great adept Ghaṇṭapa having the colour of cotton,
yumsé ja gur khyilwé ö lam du
On a trail of light twisting in a rainbow canopy with the consort and son,
dorjé drilbu sil né namkhar shek
Flying into the sky ringing a vajra and bell;
khachö wang tob shyab la solwa deb
To the one who has obtained the power of Khechara I praise.

kar sham dokchen palden kukuri
Glorious Kukkurīpā, whitish-grey,
nyöjé khandro khyi zuk bam né rol
Madly playing with a ḍākinī in the form of a dog,
ngödrub nyé né tokmé kha la shek
Acquiring the attainments and without obstruction flying into the sky;
drubchen gyalpö shyab la solwa deb
To the feet of the king of great accomplishment I praise.

dükhé dangden gyalsé lu hipa
Royal prince, Luipa, of smoky radiance,
dukpé nya tö sol né ngödrub nyé
Acquiring the attainments eating the guts of cruel fish,
gelong tsul dzin khorwé gyatso gal
Crossing the ocean of existence [while] keeping the behaviour of a monk;
tulshyuk chokden shyab la solwa deb
To the feet of the one holding the supreme conduct I praise.

pema benza dok kar khyimpé zuk
Padmavajra in the form of a layman, white in colour,
shingtok sol shying lam chok gompar dzé
Performing the path of supreme meditation and eating only fruit,
dzutrul takmo chib té namkhar shek
Flying in the sky, riding an emanated tigress;
dukchen dul dzé shyab la solwa deb
To the feet of the one who subdues evil I praise.

drubchen gyé la solwa tabpé tü
Through the power of this praise,
dakchak pönlob yönchö khor ché kyi
May we together, teachers, students and sponsors,
nekab küntu mitün barché sel
I request, at all times be free from negative obstacles
tünpé lam na chö la drang du sol
And be taken onto the positive Dharma path.

Written at the time of the Great Omniscient one having seen the faces of the Eight Great Accomplished
Ones.

| Translated by Jeff Watt, 2004. Originally published on Himalayanart.org Reproduced with permission.