Nectar of Lunar Crystal
A Prayer to Orgyen Chökyi Wangpo
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

om swasti
Oṃ svasti.
marser raldri chak gi chuktren gyen
Reddish yellow, the spray of your hand adorned with a sword,
khyenpé özer drawé künné dzé
Perfectly handsome amidst a web of wisdom light rays,
tüntsam sarwé dangden ser sek shyin
Ablaze and golden with the radiance of a pristine dawn,
chok chü khaying khyabpé yeshe ku
Your wisdom kāya fills the whole of space in every direction.

jesu chakpé roltsé bumtrak gya
You are without equal in displaying all at once
chik char tön la tsungpa mepa dang
Manifestations of love by their hundreds of thousands,
tingdzin gomo gyatrak mangpo jé
And in opening doors to samādhi by the score.
gyalwa sé dang chepé rab ngak shing
Thus, the victorious ones and their heirs extol you
töpé metok rik nga u la ching
And pin flowers of praise to the five families at your crown.

tortsuk norbü ö kyi shying kün sal
Light from the jewel of your topknot illuminates all realms.
gyalwé yab chik jampal shyönnu ni
One and only father of the conquerors, Mañjughoṣa,
tra rab dul la juk ching sishyir khyab
You enter the finest particles and pervade existence and peace.

döpé drebu yishyin tön dzé ching
As the fruit of aspirations, you manifest according to wishes,
lo chok geweshé kyi zuk su tön
And appear as a spiritual teacher of supreme intellect,
nyikmé drenpa damé nangwar gyur
A peerless guide for this decadent age.

jamyang shyab kyi pemo la rek ching
You touched the lotus feet of Mañjughoṣa
ngotsar namtar tam gyi gyümang trol
And the sitar of your wondrous life of liberation played.
changchub chöpé shyung do lasokpa
Your texts on awakening activity, the sūtras and so on
ten drö chö dong dzamling kün gyi gyen
Became a sacred support for teachings and beings, an ornament for all the world.

yeshe jungné samshyin jönpé ku
Yeshe Jungne1 intentionally reincarnated,
pakchok jampal yang dang yer miché
Inseparable from the sublime and exalted Mañjughoṣa,
dzamling khepé tenchö nam kyi shyung
You taught, practised and imparted direct instructions
ché ching nyamlen martri dompar dzé
On the major treatises of the learned ones of Jambudvīpa—
lama tukjé chen khyö yangyang dren
Compassionate guru, I call you to mind again and again.

dul ké semchen tabkhé trul gyi dul
With skill and ingenuity, you tamed unruly beings,
dik gyün chö ching gewé lam la kö
Stemmed the tide of misdeeds, fostered the path of virtue
dreltsé tarpé sabön debpar dzé
And planted the seed of liberation in all with a connection—
orgyen jikme chö kyi wangpor dü
Orgyen Jigme Chökyi Wangpo, to you I bow down.

drolwa shyiden yik druk chö kyi khar
In the dharma space of fourfold liberation and the six syllables,
dreltsé dönden sa yi ten pur trün
You planted the tethering stake of benefit for all you encountered,
sung gi trinlé khedrub lob tsokdu
And drew in learned, accomplished students through your enlightened acts of speech—
gyalsé mawé khyuchok chenpor tö
Heir to the victors, most magnificent of teachers, to you I offer praise.

kutsé tarchin dewachen shying dang
When your life was complete, in limitless emanations
ngönpar gawa sok su tekchen gyi
You continued to teach the Dharma of the Great Vehicle
chö kyi droleng trulpa pakmé kyi
In the realms of Sukhāvatī, Abhirati and elsewhere—
ten dror pendé pelwé chö kyi jé
Dharma lord, who caused the teachings and beings to prosper,

khyö la yangyang solwa tabpa yi
As a result of my repeated prayers to you,
damchö drubpé barché ying su sol
Dispel all obstacles to the practice of sacred Dharma into basic space,
changchub sem chok jongpar jingyi lob
Inspire me with your blessings so that I may master sublime bodhicitta,
dön nyi lhündrub jungwar jingyi lob
And grant your blessings so that twofold benefit may arise spontaneously.

Thus, Jamyang Lodrö Gyatso made this prayer with stable, unshakeable devotion towards this very
master on his anniversary, the eighteenth day of Saga Dawa. Siddhir bhavantu!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2021.

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. “o rgyan 'jigs med chos kyi dbang po'i gsol ba 'debs/"
in ’Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung ’bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse Labrang, 2012.
W1KG12986 Vol. 3: 91–92
↑ Aro Yeshe Jungne (A ro ye shes ‘byung gnas).