Prayer to Rigdzin Jigme Lingpa Invoking His Previous Incarnations
by Jigme Lingpa

gönpo sishyi khyabdak kuntuzang
Protector, lord presiding over the whole of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa, Samantabhadra
shyi gyü deshek nyingpö ngowo nyi
Whose very essence is the “ground continuum,” the sugatagarbha;
tongnyi nyingjer sharwa chenrezik
Avalokiteśvara, the manifestation of emptiness and compassion;
garab dorjé shyab la solwa deb
And Garab Dorje—to you we pray!

chomden ösung drung na krikri sé
You manifested as the son of King Kṛkin in the presence of Buddha Kāśyapa,1
nyimé nyen gyi ché gyur chung dzé ga
As Nanda, the younger brother of the Kinsman of the Sun,2
songtsen gampö namtrul akarma
As Akaramati emanated by King Songtsen Gampo,3
trisong detsen shyab la solwa deb
And as King Trisong Detsen—to you we pray!

birwapa dang lhacham pema sal
Mahāsiddha Virūpa and Princess Pemasal,
tsuklak dzin ngö gyalsé lharjé shyab
Vihāradhāra4 in person, venerable Gyalse Lharje,5
drimé künden yar jé orgyen ling
Drime Künden,6 Yarje Orgyen Lingpa,7
da ö shyönnu drakgyal solwa deb
Dawö Shyönnu8 and Jetsün Drakpa Gyaltsen,9 to you we pray!

penchen bimé ngötrul samyépa
Samyépa, the actual manifestation of Mahāpaṇḍita Vimalamitra,10
ngari penchen chögyal püntsok shyab
Ngari Paṇchen,11 Chögyal Püntsok,12
tashi tobgyal dzamling dorjé gar
Tashi Tobgyal,13 Dzamling Dorje,14
jikme lingpar gyur la solwa deb
And Jigme Lingpa, to you we pray!

di ok yeshe dorjé rolpa yi
Later, manifesting as Yeshe Dorje,
dorjé nyingpö ringluk lang né lar
You will uphold the tradition of the Vajra-Essence teachings,
shé shying kurpa debpa nam kyi dön
And, once again display for abusers and calumniators
trulpa natsok tön la solwa deb
All manners of manifestations—to you we pray!

dorna ösung drung du semkyé né
In brief, you generated bodhicitta in front of Buddha Kāśyapa,
changchub chöpa lab chen dzokpé tar
Then perfected the supreme training in the bodhisattvas’ conduct.
nampar gyalwachen du tsang gyawé
When you finally attain buddhahood as ‘Completely Victorious’,
düpa dangpö khor du kyewar shok
May we be reborn among your foremost students!

chi dzé lekpar tongwé dégü kyi
May we see whatever you do with faith and devotion,
khyö shyal yi la jepa la gompé
And repeatedly bringing your visage to mind,
lama chok dang namyang mindral shying
May we never be separated from the supreme lama,
tsombu chik tu ngönpar sangye shok
And attain complete enlightenment in one maṇḍala!

This was written by Khyentse Lha at the request of a few devoted students, such as Jetsün Jñāna,15
while abiding in natural rest, leaving delusional appearances as they are, mere rising.

| Translated by Gyurme Avertin, 2017.

Version: 1.2-20211007
↑ The son of King Kṛkin generated bodhicitta in Kāśyapa’s presence and received a prophecy of
his future enlightenment.↑ Buddha Śākyamuni.↑ Songtsen Gampo emitted a ray of light from
between his eyebrows, at the tip of which he sent an emanation, the monk Akaramati[śīla],
to travel to Nepal in order to find four Self-Arisen Avalokiteśvara statues that had been
hidden there.↑ Mandāravā’s father, the king of Zahor.↑ A son of prince Mutik Tsenpo, and
the immediate reincarnation of King Trisong Detsen.↑ Vessantara, a previous life of Buddha
Śākyamuni.↑ b.1323↑ i.e., Gampopa Sönam Rinchen (1079–1153).↑ The great Sakya patriarch (1147–1216).↑
“Samyépa,” which literally means “the man from Samyé,” is an epithet of Longchenpa.
His teacher Lama Dampa gave him this name as Longchenpa continued the work to revive
Samyé Monastery that Lama Dampa had initiated.↑ Pema Wangyal (1487–1542).↑ Drikung Chögyal
Püntsok (1547–1602).↑ Changdak Tashi Tobgyal (1550–1607).↑ alias Chöje Lingpa (1682–1720).↑
Probably a disciple of Jigme Lingpa called Yeshe (Alak Zenkar Rinpoche, interview,
July 2007).