Prayer to Chökyi Wangpo, the Bodhisattva1 and Tamer of Beings
by Jamyang Khyentse Wangpo

pakpé yul du lobpön shyiwa lha
In the land of the Āryas, you were the master Śāntideva;
gangri trö na trulku yeshé jung
In this land of snow-capped peaks, you were the nirmāṇakāya Aro Yeshe Jungne;2
deng dir dro dül chökyi wangpö dé
And now you are Chökyi Wangpo, the tamer of beings:
drel tsé dön den chenpor solwa dep
To this great source of benefit for all with a connection, I pray!

ngéjung chenpö drubpé gyaltsen tsuk
With great renunciation, you planted the victory banner of accomplishment;
chang sem chenpö dro kün bu tar zik
With great bodhicitta, you look upon all beings as your very own children;
khyenrab chenpö chö char tayépé
With great wisdom, you bring down an infinite shower of Dharma:
namtar dren shyin nying né solwa dep
Remembering your qualities of liberation, I pray to you from the depth of my heart!

dé tar solwa tabpé chinlap kyi
Through the inspiration and blessings of praying in this way,
jetsün lama kal gyar shyap ten ching
May the life of the venerable guru remain secure for a hundred aeons,
shé drup trinlé chok chur gyépa dang
May his activity of teaching and practice spread in all directions,
rang shyen dön nyi drubpé trashi shok
And may all be auspicious to accomplish the twofold benefit of self and others!

On the festival to mark the Buddha’s turning of the Dharma Wheel, on the fourth day of the pūrvāṣāḍhā
month of the male iron monkey year (1860), Khyentse Wangpo, the servant who delights
the Lake-born Master, made this prayer with single-pointed intention. May it be accomplished!
Siddhirastu!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2017.

Source: mkhyen brtse'i dbang po. "''gro 'dul rgyal ba'i myu gu chos kyi dbang po'i gsol 'debs/"
in gsung 'bum/_mkhyen brtse'i dbang po/. TBRC W21807. 24 vols. Gangtok: Gonpo Tseten,
1977–1980. Vol. 1: 401–402
↑ Literally, 'fresh shoot of the victorious ones' (rgyal ba'i myu gu).↑ i.e., A ro ye shes 'byung
gnas, who was active in the early eleventh century.