Prayer to the Supreme Deities
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

namo guru
Homage to the guru!

tsa sum rabjam düpé daknyi ché
Great being, perfect embodiment of the infinite Three Roots,
maha guru pema jungné la
Mahāguru Padmasambhava,
zömé dungshuk drakpö solwa deb
With unbearably intense and fervent longing, I pray to you:
barché kün sel choktün ngödrub tsol
Dispel all obstacles and grant me supreme and common siddhis!

gyalwa sé dang chepé trinlé kyi
Natural expression of the enlightened activities of the buddhas and their heirs,
rang zuk jetsün pakma drolma la
Reverend lady Tārā,
yiché dungshuk drakpö solwa deb
To you I pray with confident and fervent longing:
taktu dak la jingyi lab tu sol
May you always inspire me with your blessing!

chimé chok jin dawé dangden ma
Bestower of supreme deathlessness glowing like the moon,
yeshe chen dün nampar trawa yi
Your seven eyes of wisdom bright and distinct.
chimé pakma yishyin khorlo la
Noble lady of immortality, Wish-Fulfilling Wheel—
solwa deb so tsé yi ngödrub tsol
To you I pray: grant me siddhi of longevity!

dü dang damsi tamché dulwé shé
Destroyer who subjugates all māras and samaya violators,
gyalwa kün gyi trinlé jepö zuk
In a form that carries out the enlightened activity of all the victorious ones,
palchen dorjé shyönnu trowö gyal
Great and glorious Vajrakumāra, king of the wrathful—
taktu khyö drub dü lé gyalwar dzö
As I constantly carry out your practice, grant me victory over the māras!

jikrung ku ni gar gü nyam denpé
With a terrifying form possessing the nine wrathful expressions,
dü gek lokdren tamché dul du lak
You annihilate all māras, obstructors and negative forces.
tensung kün gyi depön dorjé gur
Pañjaranātha Mahākāla, chief of all Dharma guardians—
dak dang mindral bu shyin kyongwar dzö
Never be apart from me, but care for me as your own child!

Chökyi Lodrö wrote this prayer to the supreme deities at Dorje Ling (Darjeeling) on the eighth
day of the eighth month in the year of the Earth Dog (1958).

| Translated by Abraham Ta-Quan, 2020.

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "lhag pa'i lha'i gsol 'debs/" in ’Jam dbyangs chos kyi
blo gros kyi gsung ’bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse Labrang, 2012. W1KG12986 Vol. 3: 73