Prayer for the Dawning of Clear Light
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

drenpa tsam gyi sishyi jik trokpa
The mere thought of you banishes the anxieties of existence and quiescence,
palden lama münsel drönmé nyi
Glorious guru, beacon who dispels the darkness,
dak gi nyingga pemé den shyuk né
Take your seat upon the lotus in my heart
rangjung ösal charwar jingyi lob
And inspire the dawn of naturally arisen clear light.

tokmé dü né marik timuk gi
I have been subject to the murky gloom of delusion,
münpar nyi tuk drakpö nönpa dak
A nescience that’s endured throughout beginningless time.
jetsün lamé drin gyi khyö tuk dang
Now, in your kindness, O precious guru, inspire me
rangsem yermé shepar jingyi lob
To realise how your wisdom and my mind are indivisible.

rangrig saltong lamé tuk su shar
Let my own clear, empty awareness dawn as the guru’s wisdom—
zab shyi trödral ösal dümajé
Profound, peaceful, unelaborate and ucompounded clear light.
kyemé a yik karpo ö barwar
Inspire me with the ability to focus my mind inseparably
semzin yermé sé nü jingyi lob
On the white A, syllable of the unborn, blazing in radiance.

dé yi ö kyi chinang nöchü kün
Let its light illuminate the whole world, outer and inner,
yeshe ö kyi salwar gyurpa dang
Environment and inhabitants, in wisdom luminosity,
nyi tuk künshyi münpa ying su dak
And purify the dark of slumber and ālaya into basic space.
sab tuk ösal zinpar jingyi lob
Inspire me to recognize both coarse and subtle luminosity.

zungdzin tokpé dribpé magöpa
Untainted by the obscurations of dualistic thought,
dak dang ma dak nangwa tamché kün
In a clear state wherein all perception, pure and impure,
nang yang ngardzin mepa salwé ngang
Is experienced without any clinging to a self,
gom dri tenpa tobpar jingyi lob
Inspire me to gain the stability of familiarity.

detar tsönpé tsé dir drolwa’am
Inspire me, glorious guru of my own awareness,
bardo ösal rang ngo shepa dang
So that through such diligent application,
chönyi denpa ngönsum tokpa ru
I may gain liberation in this life or recognize the bardo’s clear light
rangrig palden lamé jingyi lob
And directly realize the truth of dharmatā.

At the urging of Pönlop Tashi Gyatso of Kha’u Kyelhé, Chökyi Lodrö wrote this in the Hevajra
Cave, residence of the Drolma Podrang.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2020.

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. gsung 'bum/_'jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros/ (dbu med/).
TBRC W21813. 8 vols. Gangtok: Dzongsar Khyentse Labrang, 1981–1985. Vol. 2: 205–206