Prayer to the Supremely Learned Holders of the Glorious Sakya Teachings
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

gyalwé lungten tobpa künga zang
Kunga Zangpo, prophesied by the victorious one,
gyalwa nyipa künkhyen ewam pa
Second buddha, all-knowing Evaṃpa,
gyalsé gyatsö ü na ngön towa
Standing tall among oceanic bodhisattvas,
ngor chen dorjé chang la solwa deb
Ngorchen Dorje Chang, to you I pray.1

jetsün dorjé chang né lek ongwé
Lord Dzongpa, vital pillar of the teachings of the whispered transmission,
nyengyü tenpé sokshing dzongpa jé
Which came down from the exalted Dorje Chang,
tutob wangchuk künga namgyal shyé
Tutop Wangchuk Kunga Namgyal,2
naljor wangchuk chenpor solwa deb
Great lord of yogis, to you I pray.

denö bumtrak tuk su lekpar chub
You perfectly mastered the myriad texts of the scriptural collections,
mapam gönpö gyé shyal taktu zik
And constantly beheld the smiling countenance of the protector Ajita,3
tekchen zab dang gyaché gongdön tok
Realizing the intent of the Great Vehicle, profound and vast—
künkhyen sangye pal la solwa deb
Omniscient Sangye Pal, to you I pray.4

do ngak rikné sheja gyatso ni
Through your diligent study and critical intellect, you gathered
namchö tsönpé khyö tuk bumpar kyil
An ocean of knowledge related to sūtra and mantra within your vase-like mind,
ché tsö tsom la drenpé da dralwa
And were unrivalled in explanation, debate and composition—
rongtön mawé sengér solwa deb
Rongtön Mawé Sengé, to you I pray.5

mapam jampé yang kyi gongpé til
You elucidated precisely and without error
manor jishyin ngönsum sal dzé ching
The essential point of the invincible Mañjughoṣa’s realization,
ngak gyü gyatsö shedrub chok gyar pel
And spread the study and practice of oceanic mantra lineages in all directions—
künkhyen sönam sengér solwa deb
Omniscient Sonam Senge, to you I pray.6

né nga rigpa jewé pul du chin
Preeminent among the myriad proponents of the five sciences,
ngedön nyingpö lam sol gyepar dzé
You spread the tradition of the definitive essence,
penchen shakya chokden drakpé pal
Great paṇḍita Śākya Chokden Drakpé Pal,7
khepé tsukgyen chenpor solwa deb
Great crown adornment of the learned, to you I pray.

dampa nam la solwa tabpé tü
Through the power of supplicating these sublime ones,
tsé dir changchub drubpé barché shyi
May all obstacles to our attainment of awakening in this life be pacified,
chimar dren chok gangdu shyukpé sar
And in future lives may we go wherever these supreme guides reside
chin né sung gi dütsir chöpar shok
And savour the nectar of their enlightened speech.

Chökyi Lodrö composed this in response to a request from his own student Yena Sherab Puntsok.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2019.

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "dpal ldan sa skya pa'i bstan 'dzin mkhas mchog rnams
kyi gsol 'debs/" in ’Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung ’bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse
Labrang, 2012. W1KG12986 Vol. 3: 171–172
↑ Ngorchen Kunga Zangpo (1382–1456).↑ Dzongpa Kunga Namgyal (1432–1496).↑ i.e., Maitreya.↑ Yaktön
Sangye Pal (1350–1414).↑ Rongtön Sheja Kunrig (1367–1449).↑ Gorampa Sonam Senge (1429–1489).↑
Shakya Chokden (1428–1507).