Prayer to Mañjuśrī, the Lion of Speech
by Karma Chakme (alias Rāgāsya)

Namo Lokeśvarāya!
dü sum sangye tamché kyi
Transcendent conqueror, embodiment of the speech
sung gi daknyi chomdendé
Of all the buddhas of the past, present and future,
pemé rik kyi dakpo té
Master of the Lotus Family,
sung gi dorjé shyé kyangja
Known as ‘Vajra of Enlightened Speech’,
öpakmé la solwa deb
Amitābha, Buddha of Boundless Light, to you I pray!

dé dang ngowo yermé pé
Inseparable from him in essence, yet appearing
sé kyi tuwö tsul zungwa
As the foremost of the buddhas' heirs,
changchub sempa sempa ché
The bodhisattva mahāsattva, great warrior of awakening,
jampal marpo raldri dzin
Mañjuśrī, red in colour and wielding a sword,
mawé sengér solwa deb
To you, the Lion of Speech, I pray!

sherab yum gyi tsul zungwa
Appearing in the form of the Wisdom Mother,
dü sum sangye tamché kyi
Goddess of the speech of all the buddhas
sung gi lhamo yangchenma
Of past, present and future, Sarasvatī,
ganggé lhamo shyé kyangja
Known as ‘Divine Lady of the Ganges’,
ngak gi lhamor solwa deb
To you, the Goddess of Speech, I pray!

solwa tabpé jinlab kyi
Through the blessings of this prayer,
dak dang dak gi jejuk dang
May I and all my followers,
tong tö dren rek drowa kün
And all who see, hear or think of me, or come in contact with me in any way,
mi shé münpa rab sal né
Dispel entirely the darkness of their ignorance,
sherab tsa kha jewar shok
And open up the channels of their wisdom!

kyewa di né tserab kün
Henceforth, in all my future lives,
sherab chalwar minjung shying
May my intelligence be free from any flaw!
sherab pünsum tsokpar shok
May I have perfect wisdom in abundance,
gyalwé sung rab gyatso la
And be blessed with an infallible memory
mi jé zung kyang tobpar shok
Of all the ocean-like teachings of the buddhas!

chönyi nampar dakpa dang
Through the utter purity of reality itself,
tendrel luwa mepa dang
And the infallible laws of interdependence,
jampal yabyum tukjé yi
And through the compassion of Mañjuśrī and consort,
mönlam tab shyin drubpar shok
May this prayer of mine be fulfilled!

This was composed by Rāgāsya for his own daily practice. May it be a cause for benefiting the
teachings and beings and bringing about ultimate happiness. Virtue! Virtue! Virtue!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2008.