Prayer to Invoke the Wisdom Mind of the Gentle Protector Sakya Paṇḍita
by Khenpo Shenpen Nangwa

om swati
Oṃ svasti!
tayé semchen tsok la pen gongpé
All the victorious ones throughout the ten directions
rabjam chok chü gyalwa tamché dang
Who intend to benefit innumerable sentient beings,
khyepar gyalsé tuwo jampé yang
And especially the foremost bodhisattva Mañjughoṣa,
tsenden lamar nang la chaktsal lo
Manifest as the authentic guru, to whom I pay homage.

dengdü nyikmé kyön gyi bakpa yi
These days, as most beings are corrupted by the taints
kyewo palcher yangdak lam lé jol
Of the degenerate age and wander far from the genuine path,
rang gi rang lü di chi dön torwa
Fooling themselves, forsaking their own interests for this and future lives—
di lé kyob shik jamgön lama jé
Protect me from such a plight, O Gentle Protector, noble guru!

nö kyi jungwa mi ten peldrib ché
The elements of the outer world are unstable and fluctuate greatly,
chü kyi semchen midé dukngal mang
Beings who inhabit the world know much unhappiness and misery,
natsok lé kyi narwé dro kham la
For these realms which are so affected by various forms of karma,
ukjin dzö chik jamgön lama jé
Grant some relief, I pray, O Gentle Protector, noble guru!

ngönché jong dir chökyi chen denpa
In this land in the past those possessing the vision of Dharma,
trulpé lo pen chenpo khyé nam kyi
Were well cared for by great emanated translators and scholars
gyalten khorlo nyi kyi lek kyangpé
Such as yourself through the two ‘wheels’ of Buddhist teachings,1
kyegu tamché dé pal jorpa gyé
And everyone’s happiness, wealth and prosperity increased.

da dü kyewo jikten chö kyi lü
But now beings are deceived by mundane concerns,
tenpé gor shyuk chö min jawé yeng
And those who’ve entered the teachings are lost in undharmic deeds.
dé la karchok lha yi gön mepé
As we lack the protection of the gods of positivity,
né tsön mugé kyen gyi nampar tak
We’re worn down, beset by illness, conflict and famine.

dechir dakchak nga dö drowa nam
Therefore, inspire us, the beings of this time,
lona yangdak chö la gyurwa dang
when the five degenerations are so rife, to turn our minds towards the Dharma.
damchö drub la barché minjung shying
Prevent the arising of obstacles to Dharma practice,
rangshyen dön nyi drubpar jingyi lob
And bless us with the accomplishment of our own and others’ aims.

khyö kyi ngöntsé drowa gön mepa
If your pledge to watch over all the beings of former times
kün la zikpé shyalshyé ten lak na
Who lacked protection was a sincere and stable one,
dungwé shuk kyi ma la bu shyindu
Why not look upon me too, as I repeatedly recall you
yangyang dren na dak la chi mi gong
Like a child desperately missing his mother.

kyempa nam kyi chab la rewa shyin
Even though I turn to you, precious guru, in my mind,
dak yi jetsün lamé jé chok kyang
Like someone plagued by thirst and longing for water,
gönpo khyö kyi tukjé ö nang gi
Still I am untouched by your compassion’s radiance.
dak la rekpa mepa di chishyik
O protector, why have you forsaken me?

dadung du yang changchub nyingpö bar
From now until I reach the essence of awakening,
chöjé lama khyö kyi jé shyukpé
Guru, Dharma lord, as I follow in your footsteps,
rabjam shejé chö la wangjor shying
Help me to learn the infinite dharmas to be known
changchub sem nyi jongwar dzé du sol
And to master twofold bodhicitta, I implore you.

nyikmé dü dir gyalten rinpoche
At this time of the degenerate age, let the community of the saṅgha,
shedrub khorlo nyi kyi dzin zöpé
Which is capable of preserving the precious teachings of Buddha
gendün düpé sateng kün geng shing
Though the two activities of teaching and practice, fill the entire world,
mitsé chö kyi dawa dzé du sol
And let everyone devote their entire lives to the Dharma, I pray.

pakpé yul gyi do ngak shyungluk kün
Through the activities of invalidation and guidance,
ngö tob rikpé lam lé rab drang té
Perfectly inspired by an approach of factual reasoning
tsarchö jesu dzinpé trinlé kyi
Based on all the textual traditions of sūtra and mantra in the noble land,
kyegü lona chö la gyurwar shok
May the minds of all beings be turned towards the Dharma.

chökyong gyalpö chabsi yündu ten
May the rule of dharma-protecting king endure,
tendzin kyebü kutsé dzetrin gyé
The lives of dharma-holders remain secure, and their activities flourish,
dzokden dü kyi getsen sarpa yi
And, through the positive dawn of a new golden era,
silden jong kün dewar nepar shok
May everyone throughout this temperate land have lasting happiness.

dak kyang nyikmé dü dir gön khyö kyi
May I, during this degenerate age, serve to continue your activity,
trinlé chok tar pelwé jepor gyur
Extending it, O protector, to the farthest reaches in every direction.
dreltsé dönden shyennang gé la gyur
May all my connections be meaningful and inspire virtue in others,2
sangye ten la jawa jepar shok
And may my own activity be of service to the Buddha’s teachings.

The mendicant monk Shenpen Nangwa offered these stanzas to invoke the wisdom mind of the gentle
protector Sakya Paṇḍita as a single-pointed prayer at the request of the monk Kunga Lodrö
while initiating the teaching of the works of the learned masters of the noble land at
the great dharma centre of glorious Lhundrup Teng. May it bring virtue and excellence!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2020.

Source: gzhan phan chos kyi snang ba, “'jam mgon sa skya paṇḍi ta'i thugs rgyud bskul ba'i gsol
‘debs” in Zhal gdams 'bel gtam gyi skor. Rewalsar, Distt. Mandi, H.P., India: Zigar Drukpa
Kargyud Institute, 1985, pp. 28–30

Version: 1.2-20220112
↑ The reference here, as made clear later in the text, is to the two activity spheres or ‘wheels’
of teaching and practice (bshad sgrub).↑ In this line, Shenpen Nangwa uses the expression
gzhan snang, literally meaning “others’ perception”, clearly a reference to his own
name gzhan phan snang ba, which might be translated as the Light of Altruism/Benefitting Others,
the Perception of Benefitting Others, or even Benefit to Others’ Perception.