Supplication to Lord Mila Shepa Dorje
by Tokden Shakya Shri

Namo guru ḍākiye
The guru yoga of the inconceivably kind Shepa Dorje begins with refuge:
namo
dak dang kha khyab kyi semchen
I and all beings throughout space,
di zung chang chub kyi bar du
Until our own enlightenment is won,
kyab né lama yi tsok la
Respectfully turn for refuge
güpé yi kyi kyab su chi'o
To the hosts of gurus who are sources of protection.
ma gyur sipa yi sem chen
We generate the supreme attitude —
nyur du lamé kyi chang chub
Wishing that all beings throughout existence, our very own mothers,
tobpé sem chok nyi kyé do
May swiftly achieve unsurpassable awakening.
Arising as the deities:
dak lü tamal gyi nang shyen rang sar tong
Grasping at my own ordinary form and appearance dissolves into the natural state,
ma gak chö nyi kyi rang dang naljor mar
And, as the unobstructed self-radiance of suchness, I appear clearly as the yoginī.
salwé u teng gi namkhar pé dé teng
In the space above my head, upon a lotus and moon,
kadrin khormé shyépa yi dorje ni
Is the guru of unrepayable kindness, Shepa Dorje.
ku dok ngo dang ré kar gyi nabza chen
Radiant blue, and dressed in a white cotton robe.
nyam shyak gi chakgya chen nyi namkhar zik
He shows the gesture of meditation as he gazes into space.
nang tong gi ku chen shyap nyi sem kyil shyuk
His form is apparent yet empty, and he sits in the bodhisattva posture.
shying rabjam kyi lama trin tar tib
Hosts of gurus from infinite realms gather around like clouds,
ma khandro gyatsöi ü na shyuk
As he presides amidst an oceanic assembly of ḍākinīs.
The actual supplication:
a ho ye
dü sum sanggye kyi ngowo
Essence of the buddhas of the three times,
chakdral damchö kyi jungné
Source of the sublime Dharma of non-attachment,
rig drol gendün gyi tso chok
Supreme among the saṅgha of knowledge and freedom;
kyab sum kündü kyi ngowo
You in whom the threefold refuge is complete:
drinchen shyepa dorje dé khyen no
Kindly Shepa Dorje, care for me!
kyab né lama yi chi zuk
Embodiment of all refuge-granting gurus,
yidam gyalwa yi ngowo
Essence of all awakened yidam deities,
khandro gyatso yi tso chok
And supreme lord of oceanic hosts of ḍākinīs;
tsa sum kündü kyi ngowo
You in whom the three-root deities are complete:
drinchen shyepa dorje dé khyen no
Kindly Shepa Dorje, care for me!
kagyü tenpa yi tsuk gyen
Crown ornament of the Kagyü teachings,
sang lam nyen gyü kyi dakpo
Lord of the ear-whispered secret path,
kalden min drol gyi tab khé
Skilfully maturing and liberating the fortunate;
dro dön namkha dang nyampė
You who guide all beings throughout space:
drinchen shyepa dorje dé khyen no
Kindly Shepa Dorje, care for me!
dak ni di chi tsé rab kün tu
In this and all my future lives,
kyab dang ré sa shyen na mé do
I have no other hope or refuge but you.
tukjé zung shik lama jetsün khyen no
Pray, hold me in your compassion, and, lordly master, care for me!
ku yi wang chok lü la kur
Bestow the supreme empowerment of your form upon my body,
po mé jalü drubpar chin gyi lop
And bless me to accomplish the immutable rainbow body.
sung gi wang chok ngak la shyuk
Cause the supreme empowerment of your voice to enter my speech,
drak tong gakpa mépar chin gyi lop
And bless me to accomplish the ceaseless unity of sound-emptiness.
tuk kyi wang chok yi la shyuk
Bestow the supreme empowerment of your wisdom upon my mind,
rig tong chö kur tokpar chin gyi lop
And bless me to realize the dharmakāya of empty-awareness.
tar jetsün lama ö du shyu
Finally, the lordly master dissolves into light
rang rigpé shi dang nyi mé dré
And becomes inseparable from the nature of my awareness:
shyi rang drol chökü long du ah
The self-liberation of the ground within the expanse of dharmakāya: Āḥ.

This is the supplication of the lowly madman Śākya Śrī.

| Translated by Sean Price, 2016.