The Liberating Guide
A Prayer to Gyalwa Yangönpa
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

lama tukjé chen la chaktsal lo
Homage to the compassionate guru!

ngejung chenpö si lé rab gal né
With great renunciation, you cast aside conditioned existence.
yongdzin gewé shé kyi jesu zung
You were guided your teacher, a virtuous spiritual friend,
nyönmong zakpa tamché pangpa yi
And abandoned all mental afflictions and defilements—
drachom chenpö shyab la solwa deb
Magnificent arhat, ‘foe destroyer’, at your feet I pray.

shyenpen changchub sem gyi tukgyü tam
As your wisdom mind filled with altruism and bodhicitta,
dakwé shyen ché jongwé rang sok kyang
Your mastery of cherishing others above yourself meant that
semchen dönchir tong la mi shyumpa
You would not hesitate to sacrifice your own life for beings’s sake—
gyalsé sempa chenpor solwa deb
Magnificent bodhisattva, heir of the victorious ones, to you I pray.

wang shyi lam gyi gyü shyi rab jang shing
The four empowerments refined the four aspects of your being,
damtsik dompa sok tar chepar kyang
And you guarded the samaya as dearly as your own life-force,
dakshyen nöchü kyilkhor shyi ru shar
So that self and other, world and inhabitants, arose as the four maṇḍalas—
dorjé dzinpa chenpor solwa deb
Magnificent Vajradhara, ‘bearer of the adamantine sceptre’, to you I pray.

chitar nyentö dulwé chöpa kyang
Outwardly you uphold the Vinaya conduct of a śrāvaka disciple,
nang du dro kün pamar shepé drol
Inwardly you possess the liberating recognition of all beings as parents,
sangwa lhenkyé dechen dorjé dak
Secretly you are the embodiment of great, co-emergent vajra bliss—
dom sumden pa chenpor solwa deb
Magnificent upholder of the three sets of vows, to you I pray.

khyenpé shejé chö kün ngönsum zik
In your wisdom you directly perceive all knowable phenomena,
tsewé nyal mé zö kar jukpar tro
In your love, you would happily brave the unbearable fires of hell,
nüpé chi nang sangwé dü tsok chom
In your power, you destroy hosts of outer, inner and secret demons—
rik sum dü shyal chenpor solwa deb
Magnificent face and embodiment of the three families, to you I pray.

khepé tsok kyi ü na pobpa to
Among hosts of learned scholars your courageous eloquence prevails,
drubtob naljor kün gyi ü na ji
Among all the adepts and yogins, you are the most resplendent,
zangpö dzepé drak nyen ring trowa
Your renown and reputation for noble deeds is far-reaching—
gyaltsen pal zang shyab la solwa deb
Gyaltsen Palzang, ‘splendid banner of victory’, at your feet I pray.

lün gom yichö lé dé chakgya shyi
Having transcended foolish meditation and speculative analysis,
tokpa jishyin ngön du gyurpa lé
You gained perfect realization of the four types of mudrā,
tsa yi dü drol salam tarchinpé
Releasing the knots in your channels as you traversed paths and stages—
naljor wangchuk chenpor solwa deb
Magnificent and mighty lord among yogins, to you I pray.

dak ni khyé la miché depé tü
Through the force of my unshakeable confidence in you,
cham bü tsik pang nying né soltab pé
I reject feigned expression and pray from the depths of my heart.
gönpo khyö kyi namtar malüpa
Through this may I be inspired with your blessings
dak gi yongsu dzokpar jingyi lob
To accomplish every aspect of your fully liberated life.

Chökyi Lodrö offered this prayer on the twenty-first day of the eleventh month of the Earth
Mouse year1 based on the compounded delusion of a minor visionary experience.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2021.

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "rgyal ba yang dgon pa'i gsol 'debs/" in ’Jam dbyangs
chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung ’bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse Labrang, 2012. W1KG12986 Vol. 3:
211–212
↑ 20 January 1949