The Tamboura of Devotion
A Prayer to Götsang Gönpo Dorje
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

jé lama nam la chaktsal lo
Homage to the noble gurus!

né chitsuk nyidé den teng na
Upon sun and moon-disc seats at my crown,
pal kadrin nyammé lama jé
Sits the glorious guru unmatched in kindness,
jé khyabdak gönpo dorjé la
The sovereign lord and master, Gönpo Dorje—
dak solwa deb so tukjé zung
To you I pray: hold me in your compassion!

jé mi ngön ying na shyuk tsana
Lord, as you remain in unmanifest basic space,
gön sangye nam dang gongpa chik
You are one with the buddhas in realization,
pal heruka dang chöyul nyam
And equal to the glorious heruka in activity,
naljor gyi wangchuk drubpé tso
Mightiest of yogins, foremost among adepts.

jé khyö la dungwé soldeb na
Lord, as I pray to you with fervent devotion,
sang sum gyi jinlab wangkur tsol
Confer the blessings and empowerments of your three secrets.
dü danta dorjé jin chen pob
Shower down a great rain of vajra blessings, here and now,
dak gyü la nyamtok kyé du sol
And cause experience and realization to develop in my mind.

ku den sum tsangwé kyilkhor né
From the maṇḍala of your form, complete with the three seats,
lü bumpé wang gi minpa dang
May the vase empowerment serve to ripen my body,
tsa dö ché dribpa dakpa dang
Purify any blockages within my physical channels,
lü ku yi dorjér dak drub dzö
And refine my body as the vajra of enlightened form.

jé sung gi dorjé kyilkhor né
Lord, from the maṇḍala of your enlightened vajra speech,
ngak sangwé wang gi minpa dang
May the secret empowerment serve to ripen my speech,
lung gyur ché ngak gi drima jang
Purify any defects of speech or dynamic wind-energy,
ngak sung gi dorjér drubpar dzö
And refine my voice as the vajra of enlightened speech.

tuk riktong dorjé kyilkhor né
From the maṇḍala of the vajra mind of awareness and emptiness,
yi sher yé wang gi minpa dang
May the knowledge-wisdom empowerment ripen my mind,
sem tiklé powé drima jang
Purify any faults of mind or the emission of subtle essences,
yi tuk kyi dorjér drubpar dzö
And refine my intellect as the vajra of enlightened mind.

jé yeshe dorjé kyilkhor né
Lord, from the maṇḍala of your enlightened vajra wisdom,
wang shyipé tokpa kyepar dzö
May the realization of the fourth empowerment develop,
künshyi yi dribpa jongwa dang
Purifying any obscurations of the all-ground consciousness,
sem riktong dorjér drub gyur chik
And refining my mind as vajra awareness and emptiness.

dé mö kyi dungshuk drak tu kyé
Help me to generate intense and longing devotion,
mögü kyi sa shyi tsangma la
So that upon the pure ground of ardent veneration,
gön yeshe ku yi zuknyen char
The reflection of your wisdom form may arise,
tukgyü kyi gongpa powar dzö
O protector, and your realization be transmitted.

kyab lama könchok nam sum la
May I always follow the sources of refuge—the guru
yi khyé shé depé taktu nyen
And the Three Jewels—with total trust and reliance.
dak lü sem deduk chi jung yang
And no matter what befalls me physically or mentally,
jé dampa nam kyi gön kyob dzö
Whether joy or sorrow, may the sublime ones protect me!

madrowa druk gi semchen nam
Since the sentient beings of the six realms
bu dak gi pamar gyurpé na
Have been my father and mother in the past,
dukngal gyi gyatso chenpo lé
May I be able to free them from the ocean of misery
tarpa dampar gö nü shok
And deliver them to the state of perfect freedom.

lü yidam lha yi sal nang ten
Clearly and steadily visualizing my body as the yidam deity,
ngakdé jö chuwö shyung tar tsön
With my speech a constant river-like flow of mantra recitation,
sem rangdrol chakgya chenpö ngang
And my mind in the state of self-liberation, Mahāmudrā—
dü taktu yengmé tsönpar shok
May I strive at all times with unwavering enthusiasm.

dü sum du sakpé gé tsok nam
All virtues amassed throughout the three times,
lö chik tu dü né dro la jin
I mentally gather together and offer to all beings.
ma khakhyab semchen malüpa
May each and every one throughout the whole of space
pal ku shyi wangchuk tobpar shok
Attain the level of this splendid master of the four kāyas.

jé drubpé wangchuk khyé khyen no
Mighty lord of siddhas, know me! Care for me!
dü danta nyi du jingyi lob
Inspire me with your blessings, this very instant!
duk sa di nyi du jingyi lob
Inspire me with your blessings, in this very place!
ten tok di nyi du jingyi lob shik
Inspire me with your blessings, upon this very seat!

lama drub gyé tsukgyen
Guru, crowning ornament of a hundred siddhas,
gyalwa götsang pa gönpo dorjé khyen no
Gyalwa Götsangpa Gönpo Dorje, care for me!
Repeat this a hundred or a thousand times and pray.

This prayer was offered by Chökyi Lodrö at the behest of Lama Yeshe Lhundrup. May virtue abound!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2021.

Source: ’Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "rgod tshang mgon po rdo rje'i gsol 'debs/" in ’Jam
dbyangs chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung ’bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse Labrang, 2012. W1KG12986.
Vol. 3: 215–217