The Vision
A Prayer to Ārya Avalokiteśvara
composed by Kunkhyen Jikmé Lingpa

Homage to you, Lord of the World!
riktong zungjuk ösal chenpö bub
In the vastness of clear light, awareness and emptiness inseparable,
lhenkyé nyukma deshek nyingpö tuk
Lies the innate primordial nature, wisdom mind of the sugatagarbha.
tongwa dönden longku chenrezik
To see you Avalokiteśvara, in your saṃbhogakāya form, is of the deepest meaning and moment;
kham sum drowé drenpa khyö chaktsal
I bow to you, the guide for all beings in the three realms:
gyalsé khyerang tabur jingyi lob
Bless me to become a bodhisattva, just like you!

gang ku tönké da shyön sarpa la
Your body is like the pure, bright autumn moon,
tsenpé yönten ridak shyönnü khyü
Your major and minor marks of perfection akin to the image of the hare that holds the moon in
its embrace.
khordé nyamjor chakgya tukkar dzé
At your heart, the mudrā that joins saṃsāra and nirvāṇa,
drang treng pekar dzin ching drengbur shyuk
In your hands, mālā and white lotus, in utter beauty there you stand:
gyalsé khyerang tabur jingyi lob
Bless me to become a bodhisattva, just like you!

gang sung yenlak drukchü tambura
Your speech with its sixty wondrous qualities sounds as sweet as a tamboura,
kalapingké gyü dzok nyenchuk tril
As perfect in its undulating tones as the song of the kalaviṅka bird,
tekpa kün gyi döndü chö dra drok
Proclaiming teachings that distil the truth of all the yānas.
mindrol lam gyi dakpo khyö chaktsal
I bow before you, master of the path of ripening and liberation:
gyalsé khyerang tabur jingyi lob
Bless me to become a bodhisattva just like you!

gang tuk pomé trö kün nyershyi long
Your mind is ever-present, changeless—all complexity is stilled in its expanse.
khyen nyi yönten cha dzok tukjé tsal
With the qualities of the two knowledges all perfected, the power of your compassion
lüchen chi dang khawa ripa la
Radiates extraordinary enlightened activities
trowé trinlé mejung khyö chaktsal
To beings everywhere, above all in Tibet. To you I bow:
gyalsé khyerang tabur jingyi lob
Bless me to become a bodhisattva, just like you!

tsen tsam töpé mitün güpa sel
Simply hearing your name ends all discord and decline;
drenpa tsam gyi ngendrö jik lé drol
Simply thinking of you frees us from the fear of lower realms.
dro druk yichen kün gyi nyen chikpo
One and only friend to all six classes of sentient beings,
lhakpé lha chok gönpo khyö chaktsal
Supreme and special deity, our protector, before you I bow:
gyalsé khyerang tabur jingyi lob
Bless me to become a bodhisattva, just like you!

pangjé drima tadak ring du dor
The flaws to be discarded you have driven far, far away;
drubjé yönten malü ngön du dzé
The qualities to be cultivated you have demonstrated, every single one.
tong na mitün mepé dzutrul chen
It’s miracles you perform, yet never is there anything incongruous to be seen.
pakpa jikten wangchuk khyö chaktsal
Sublime Lord of the World, to you I bow!
gyalsé khyerang tabur jingyi lob
Bless me to become a bodhisattva just like you!

ema, khyé ni mönlam tutsenpé
E ma! The vast power of your aspirations is why
dak la kyabné ré tö shyenmé do
It’s you I turn to, as my refuge, my source of trust, and no-one else.
tukjé chakkyü zungwé dü la bab
Now is the time: hook me with your compassion!
gyalsé khyerang tabur jingyi lob
Bless me to become a bodhisattva just like you!

dak sok nyikma nga dö semchen kün
All of us living through this dark age of decay,
zömé lé kyi dukhé taktu nar
Are tortured with no break by karma’s unbearable misery.
khorwa lugu gyü du khajam na
And as I wander through saṃsāra, one life upon another,
solwa deb so pakpé tukjé zik
It’s to you I pray, Avalokiteśvara: look on me with your compassion,
gyalsé khyerang tabur jingyi lob
And bless me to become a bodhisattva, just like you!

dak ni bakmé lé la gompé tü
Driven by addiction to mindless distractions,
gön khyö gyepé chen ré ring du song
I have strayed so far from your sight, your grace, your protection.
dukngal chuwö nyermar chöpé tsé
And now when I face the surging waves in this ocean of suffering,
solwa deb so pakpé tukjé zik
It’s to you I pray Avalokiteśvara: look on me with your compassion,
gyalsé khyerang tabur jingyi lob
Bless me to become a bodhisattva just like you!

khordé nyi kyi langdor tsul la mong
When I’m bewildered about how to let saṃsāra go and seek nirvāṇa,
namyeng gamé shyin la takpar chak
Endlessly clinging to the face of my flighty beloved,
nyintsen lokpé chöpé la da tsé
And I repeat the same reckless behaviour day and night,
solwa deb so pakpé tukjé zik
It’s to you I pray Avalokiteśvara: look on me with your compassion,
gyalsé khyerang tabur jingyi lob
Bless me to become a bodhisattva just like you!

langtsö dzepa lodé mak gi chom
When the glamour of youth is trampled underfoot by the army of months and years,
la tsé jönpa shinjé taré sü
The tree of vitality is splintered by the axe of the Lord of Death,
tarpé soktsa tramor jepé tsé
And the lifeline of liberation withers away,
solwa deb so pakpé tukjé zik
It’s to you I pray, Avalokiteśvara: look on me with your compassion,
gyalsé khyerang tabur jingyi lob
Bless me to become a bodhisattva, just like you!

parchin druk gi langtsö gompa khyor
As I stumble, unsteady, on shaky steps among the six pāramitās,
tö sam gompé natsö ché cher tra
My listening, contemplating and meditation still immature,
ngalwa dönmé chöpa lhurlen tsé
And I am obsessed with tasks just futile and meaningless,
solwa deb so pakpé tukjé zik
Then it’s to you I pray, Avalokiteśvara: look on me with your compassion,
gyalsé khyerang tabur jingyi lob
Bless me to become a bodhisattva, just like you!

yeshe nam ngé shyinré duk ngé drib
When the face of five wisdoms is covered by five poisons,
rangjung yeshe tawé dren jé long
The eyes to see innate primordial wisdom go blind,
lé dang bakchak münpar tumpé tsé
And I’m left shrouded in the dark of karma and habits,
solwa deb so pakpé tukjé zik
Then it’s to you I pray, Avalokiteśvara: look on me with your compassion,
gyalsé khyerang tabur jingyi lob
Bless me to become a bodhisattva, just like you!

khyabpa dujé dukngal gyi narwé
Ordinary people like me, foolish and naive,
jipa sosö kyewö lüchen kün
Are tormented by the pervasive suffering of conditioning,
lé ngen drebü tso chen dolwé tsé
And when I’m submerged in this ocean—the results of my evil karma,
solwa deb so pakpé tukjé zik
I pray to you, Avalokiteśvara: look on me with your compassion,
gyalsé khyerang tabur jingyi lob
Bless me to become a bodhisattva just like you!

mönjuk changchub sem la lojong né
Once I have trained my mind in bodhicitta, both aspiration and action,
sa chu lam ngé yönten tarchin té
And perfected the qualities of the ten stages and five paths,
tob chu ngawé gopang nyé né kyang
Let me attain the enlightened state with its ten powers,
drowa drenpé depön jepar shok
And serve as a guide, a leader, for all living beings.

gang gi dak la lek shé töpa am
Then let any who have heard my teachings,
tong tö dren rek tam gyi drelpa tsün
Or made a connection with me through seeing, hearing, remembering or speaking,
tsammé lejang ngensong go khek né
Be purified of their karma, even acts of immediate retribution.
shying chokpo tala ru kyewar shok
May the doors to the lower realms be closed for them, and may they be reborn in the exquisite
Potala paradise!

At dawn on the tenth day of the tenth month of the Earth Tiger year (1758), when Longchen Namkhé
Naljor actually saw the exalted Lord of the World in a vision, and the symbolic signs
appeared of the Tukjé Chenpo Dukngal Rangdrol, he composed this prayer. Geo! Geo! Geo!

| Rigpa Translations, with reference to an earlier translation by Tulku Thondup Rinpoche, and
with a number of kind and vital clarifications by Ven. Khenpo Sonam Tsewang.

Source: 'Jigs med gling pa. "'phags pa'i gsol 'debs zhal mthong ma", in klong chen snying thig
rtsa pod. 5 Vols. BDRC W1KG13585. Bodhnath, Kathmandu and Bodhgaya, Bihar: Shechen Publications,
1994. Vol. 2: 403–407.