The Revelling Ocean of Blessings
A Prayer to Tsarchen Dorje Chang
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

emaho
Emaho!
sangye kün gyi tukjé chik dü pa
Embodiment of all the buddhas’ compassion,
dorjé chang ngö tsarpa chökyi jé
Vajradhara in person, Tsarpa Lord of Dharma,
nying ü pekar shyepé tser chö dé
I offer you the blossoming white lotus of my heart
miché nying né güpé solwa deb
And pray to you with unshakeable, heartfelt devotion.

gangchen khé dang drubpé tsuk gi gyen
The crown adornment of all the Snowy Land’s scholars and adepts
birwé shyal gyi dampa sakyapa
Was Virūpa, whose teachings passed to the noble Sakya patriarchs
jetsün gongmé nyengyü lobshé kyi
In an aural lineage of private instruction.
zab dön dütsi nyöpé tsarpa jé
Lord Tsarpa, who imbibed this nectar of profound meaning,
pa gö losal gyatsor solwa deb
Heroic father Losal Gyatso, to you I pray.

naropa dang dramzé chok sé dang
Master of the one-to-one transmission of Golden Dharmas
ra chen drok mi lasok lek gyüpé
Of yidam deities, ḍākinīs, dharma guardians and the like,
yidam daki chökyong lasokpé
Which was passed from Nāropa and the brahmin Vararuci,
ser chö chik gyü dakpor solwa deb
Down through the great Ra, Drokmi and others—to you I pray.

labpé tsultrim dakpé yitrok ching
You captivated minds with the purity of your ethical training,
tingdzin go gyar juk dang tokpamé
Were unimpeded as you entered and rose from a hundred samādhis,
sherab sum gyi terchen jampé yang
And in the great treasury of your threefold wisdom, you were Mañjughoṣa in person—
palden lama chok la solwa deb
Glorious and supreme guru, to you I pray.

ché khé loden jewé yi ga guk
Skilled in exposition, you attracted myriads of brilliant minds,
tsöpé pé gol drakri chemar tak
In debate you crushed the mountain of your adversaries to dust,
tsompé tubten lhünpo salwar jé
And through composition illuminated the peak of Buddha’s teachings—
khyen rab pata yé la solwa deb
To you whose perfect wisdom was unbounded, I pray.

tsewa chenpö shyendön bashyik chö
In your vast love, you acted only for the welfare of others;
tutob nüpé dü dé chemar tak
With your power and strength, you crushed Māra’s hordes.
yidam lha yi gyé shyal taktu jal
You constantly beheld the delighted faces of the yidam deities.
nyendrub tak tsé ngöngyur solwa deb
And actualized all the signs of approach and accomplishment—to you I pray.

kyepé rimpé chir nang lha kur shar
Through the generation phase, all appearances arose in the form of the deity,
dzokpé rimpé lung tik drö nam tim
And through the perfection phase, the motions of winds and essences dissolved.
drib sum bakchak dangché pangpa dang
You overcame the three obscurations together with their habitual traces,
salam yönten dzok la solwa deb
And perfected the qualities of the paths and stages—to you I pray.

nyikdü dorjé dzinpa kün gyi gyal
King of all the vajra-holders of this degenerate age,
dorjé lama dren chok tsarpa jer
Vajra guru, the thought of whom is sufficient, Lord Tsarpa—
miché güpé taktu soldeb na
As I supplicate you, constantly with unshakeable devotion,
jinlab wangchen danta kur du sol
Bestow a mighty river of blessings here and now, I pray.

riktong chönyi ngönsum tokpa dang
Cause me to realize the nature of awareness-emptiness directly,
drö shyi tim né ku shyi ngön du jé
Dissolve the fourfold motion and actualize the four kāyas,
rangshyen dön nyi lhün gyi drubpa yi
Spontaneously accomplish my own and others’ aims,
chö kyi gyalpo khyö dang tsungpar shok
And become your very equal, O sovereign of Dharma!

Grant your blessings, so that this prayer, made by Kunga Trinlé Gyatso Döndrup Wanggi Gyalpo
with a mind of vivid faith before the lord guru’s precious reliquary at Dar Drongchen, may
be fulfilled.

On the seventh day of the ninth month of the Fire Monkey year (1956), while staying for a night
in the presence of this master’s reliquary, I dreamt that I conferred the other empowerments
of Dharmadhātu Vāgīśvara Mañjuśrī and so on, and that I had the name given above in
the past and was called Wanggi Gyalpo. When Sakya Daktri Āyurvajra conferred the lower rites
of Kīla, I felt that the great Mantra Holder was seated directly before me, and when offering
prayers and aspirations to the ‘Blazing Jewel Light’ Mañjughoṣa, I received some slight
indication of blessings, which then faded as my memory lapsed.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2021.

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. “Tshar chen rdo rje ‘chang gi gsol ‘debs/“ in ’Jam dbyangs
chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung ’bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse Labrang, 2012. W1KG12986 Vol.
3: 165–166

Version: 1.0-20210831