The Ambrosia of Blessings
A Prayer to Drodül Pawo Dorje, Vidyādhara of Unparalleled Kindness
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

om swasti
Oṃ svasti.
tsa sum kündü orgyen dorjé chang
The Vajradhara of Oḍḍiyāna, embodiment of the Three Roots,
gang gi yeshe chik gi namrol lé
In his manifestation of the one primordial wisdom,
bang rik nyerngé khyuchok ma tok jé
Had twenty-five disciples, of whom you were the foremost,
rinchen tsen chang shyab la solwa deb
Lord Matok with the name of Rinchen—to you I pray.1

denyi nga dö makrum salwé lé
Then, to illuminate this dark age of fivefold degeneration,
dawé ö tar salwé tukjé chen
Like the light of the moon, you appeared in your compassion,
khyen tsé nüpé yönten sam mikhyab
With inconceivable qualities of knowledge, love and power,
drodul pawo dorjér solwa deb
Drodül Pawo Dorje, to you I pray.

gong da nyengyü lamé tsok nam kyi
You received the essence of the wisdom minds of hosts of gurus
tuk kyi chü tob kunzang gong dzö wang
From mind-direct, symbolic and whispered transmissions and mastered Samantabhadra’s realization,
rigdzin drubpa yong kyi tsuk gi gyen
To became the crown-ornament of all the accomplished vidyādharas,
natsok rangdrol shyab la solwa deb
Natsok Rangdrol, to you I pray.

ku yi kyilkhor tongwa tsam gyi drol
Merely to glimpse the maṇḍala of your form brings liberation,
sung gi dang ké druk gi dra tar dir
Your voice resounds like the thunderous roar of a dragon,
tuk kyi gongpa gyatso tar zabpa
And your wisdom realization is as deep as the ocean—
palden lamé shyab la solwa deb
Glorious guru, at your feet I pray.

ché na tsikdön drel lek nawar nyen
In teaching, your elegant association of words and meanings is a delight to hear,
tsöpé pé gol drakri chemar tak
Through debate, you crush opponents like a mountain that grinds them to dust,
tsompa nyingpö tenpé chö dong ché
And your compositions are like a sacred monument of essential teachings—
gyalsé sempa chenpor solwa deb
Great bodhisattva, heir of the victorious ones, to you I pray.

taktu ösal ngang lé mi yo shying
Never wavering from the constant experience of clear light,
trul tok bakchak tamché ying su nub
All deluded thoughts and habitual patterns have faded into absolute space,
mikmé nyingjé chenpo dro la juk
And with great non-referential compassion you come to beings' aid—
lama dömé gönpor solwa deb
Primordial lord and guru, to you I pray.

deng né zung té changchub nyingpö bar
From this moment on, until I reach the essence of awakening,
rigdzin lamé dralmé jesu zung
Care for me, vidyādhara guru, without ever parting,
tuk gyü gongpé jin lab tobpa dang
So that I may receive the blessings of the wisdom-mind transmission—
rangshyen dön nyi drubpar solwa deb
To you who accomplish your own and others' welfare, I pray.

pendé jungné tenpa dar shying gyé
May the teachings, the source of benefit and happiness, spread far and wide.
tendzin kyechok shyabpé tenpa dang
May the lives of the sublime holders of the teachings remain secure.
gendün pel shying jikten gé chur chö
May the saṅgha increase and the whole world practise the ten virtues.
nöchü gü shyi gelek pelgyé shok
May the decline of the environment and beings be halted, and may virtue and goodness abound.

Thus, Chökyi Lodrö, who ranks as the least of the disciples whom this protector cared for in
his great kindness, offered this prayer when recollecting the guru during the month of miracles
in the Water Dragon year.2 Siddhirastu!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2020.

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "bka’ drin mnyam med rig ‘dzin ‘gro ‘dul dpa’ bo rdo
rje la gsol ba ‘debs pa byin rlabs bdud rtsi/" in ’Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung
’bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse Labrang, 2012. W1KG12986 Vol. 3: 111–112

Version: 1.2-20211028
↑ i.e., Ma Rinchen Chok  also known as Matok Rinchen.
↑ i.e., in 1952.