The Treasure of Wisdom Illumination
A Prayer to Sonam Senge, Omniscient Sun of the Teachings
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

namo guru punye senghaya
Namo guru-puṇya-siṃhāya!

künkhyen jampal mawé sengé chok
All-knowing Mañjuśrī, supreme lion of speech,
küngé ringluk nyinmor jepé lé
In order to become a sun for the tradition of Kunga,1
kuntuzangpö mönlam rab drubpa
You perfectly accomplished Samantabhadra’s aspirations.
künzik jamyang lamar solwa deb
All-seeing Mañjughoṣa guru, to you I pray.

döné jampé pal dang yer miché
Always indivisible from Mañjuśrī—Gentle Splendour,
pak bö khedrub dumé kyewa shyé
You took birth as scholars and adepts in India and Tibet,
dengdir gewé shé kyi kur tön né
And then you took the form of this spiritual friend.
sumden dorjé dzinpar solwa deb
Vajra holder of the three sets of vows, to you I pray.

ngejung tsultrim khang zang nyamgawar
In the delightful palace of renunciation and discipline,
shyenpen changchub sempé tuwo ché
You are the great son and heir, an altruistic bodhisattva,
sangwé dakpo dorjé nyem changwa
The Lord of Secrets sustaining vajra pride.
rik sum dü shyal lamar solwa deb
Guru who embodies the three families, to you I pray.

zab dang gyaché sheja tamché khyen
Master of all the profound and vast topics of knowledge,
ché tsö tsom la chaktok dribpa dral
Unobstructed in exposition, debate and composition,
gangchen dzepé gyen chok chenpo ni
You are a magnificent ornament enhancing the Land of Snows.
tsungda mepa khyé la solwa deb
Peerless and unrivalled one, to you I pray.

yum dön gongpa jishyin tuk su chü
You understood the precise meaning of Mother Prajñāpāramitā,
palden chökyi drakpa ngö su nang
And showed yourself to be glorious Dharmakīrti in person,
yik gi nyenpo shyindu jöpa dak
As articulate in expression as Vasubandhu himself.
khepé tsukgyen chenpor solwa deb
Great crown adornment of scholars, to you I pray.

jam lu gongpa galmé chik tu drub
You reconciled the visions of both Maitreya and Nāgārjuna,
takché tröpé ta la ma lhung shying
Without falling into eternalist or nihilist extremes,
zungjuk uma chenpo tön dzepa
And revealed the great Middle Way of unity.
jangchok tubwang nyipar solwa deb
Second Lord of Sages for the Land of Snows, to you I pray.

jikdral tob kyi gönpo birupé
With a stream of ripening empowerments and liberating instructions
shyé shyung sung ngak mindrol chugyün gyi
In the tradition of Virūpa, that fearless and mighty guardian,
kalden ku shyi lo tok gyé dzepa
You brought fortunate disciples an abundant four-kāya harvest.
jetsün rinpoche la solwa deb
Most precious and noble one, to you I pray.

ngepé döndu dorjé chang wang dang
In reality, you are none other than mighty Vajradhara,
tadé ma chi kyilkhor kün gyi dak
The lord of each and every maṇḍala,
sang ngak gyü dön manor sal dzepa
Clarifying without error the meaning of tantra and secret mantra.
naljor wangchuk chenpor solwa deb
Great lord of yogins, to you I pray.

kyewa di dang kyewa shyendak tu
In this and all my other lives to come,
khyé kyi sangwa sum gyi jinlab shyuk
May I be blessed by your secret body, speech and mind,
gyalwé gongpa jishyin chepa la
And as I expound upon the intent of the victorious buddhas,
künkhyen lama nyi dang yermé shok
May I be indivisible from you, the all-knowing guru.

sönam chenpö pal gyi lek sung tsok
With powerful intellect capable of retaining, explaining and propagating
dzin ché pel la lodrö tuden shying
Your excellent teachings that have the splendour of great merit,
chok lé nampar gyalwé sengé dré
And with the leonine roar of comprehensive and universal victory
ta ngen ridak tsok nam jom gyur chik
May I overcome the bestial hordes of mistaken views.

Thus, prompted by a virtuous dream, Jamyang Chökyi Lodrö offered this prayer in the Water Dragon
year (1952–53). Siddhirastu. Maṅgalam.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2019.

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "kun mkhyen bstan pa'i nyi ma bsod nams seng+ge'i gsol
'debs/" in ’Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung ’bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse Labrang,
2012. W1KG12986 Vol. 3: 169–170
↑ i.e., the Sakya tradition, which derives from Sachen Kunga Nyingpo.