The Beautiful Garland of Uḍumbara Flowers
A Prayer to the Previous Incarnations
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

om svasti
Oṃ svasti!
gyalwa sé dang chepé yeshe ku
Wisdom embodiment of all the buddhas and their bodhisattva heirs,
chok dü mu tamepar khyabpé dak
Sovereign ruler present throughout the whole of space and time,
rangjung dangpö sangye chomdendé
Spontaneously arisen primal buddha, transcendent conqueror,
gönpo jampé yang la solwa deb
Lord and protector Mañjughoṣa, to you I pray!

khyen rab wangchuk jampal shenyen dang
Powerful master of wisdom, Mañjuśrīmitra,
dorjé ku nyé bimalamitra
Vimalamitra, who gained an indestructible vajra form,
khorlo dom ngö dorjé drilbu pa
Cakrasaṃvara in person, Vajraghaṇṭāpāda,
panchen go tayepar solwa deb
And the great paṇḍita Anantamukhamati,1 to you I pray!

chögyal tsangpa lha yi metok dang
Dharma-king Tsangpa Lhayi Metok,2
dé yi yangtrul chok drub gyalpö shyab
And the reincarnation Chokdrub Gyalpo,3
smritijnana nyang tön nyima ö
Smṛtijñāna,4 Nyangtön Nyima Özer,5
chögyal pakpa nam la solwa deb
And Chögyal Phakpa,6 to you I pray!

drubpé tsukgyen mi la repa dang
Crowning jewel of siddhas, Milarepa,
drigung rinchen pal dang drimé ö
Drikung Rinchen Pal,7 Drimé Özer,8
men la ngö nang yu tok yönten gön
Medicine Buddha incarnate, Yuthok Yönten Gönpo,9
sönam gyaltsen nam la solwa deb
And Sonam Gyaltsen,10 to you I pray!

nak kyi rinchen gö lo shyönnu pal
Vanaratna,11 Gö Lotsawa Shyönnu Pal,12
khyen rab chöjé panchen gendün drub
Khyenrab Chöjé,13 great paṇḍita Gendun Drup,14
naljor wangchuk tangtong gyalpo dang
Lord of siddhas, Thangtong Gyalpo,15
könchok gyaltsen nam la solwa deb
And Könchok Gyaltsen,16 to you I pray!

sa lo jamyang künga sönam dang
Sakya Lotsawa Jamyang Kunga Sonam,17
ngari panchen né sar khyentsé wang
Ngari Paṇchen,18 Nesar Khyentse Wangchuk,19
tashi tob gyal lo zang gyatsö dé
Tashi Tobgyal,20 Lobzang Gyatsöi De,21
gyalwa tsang yang shyab la solwa deb
And Gyalwa Tsangyang,22 to you I pray!

tsödü künkhyen chenpo jikmé ling
Great omniscient one in this troubled age, Jikmé Lingpa,
drubpé wangchuk yeshe dorjé dang
Lord of siddhas, Yeshe Dorje,23 no different from
yermé kabab dünden khyentsé wang
Jamyang Khyentse Wangpo, recipient of the seven special transmissions,24
jamyang lodrö gyatsor solwa deb
And Jamyang Lodrö Gyatso,25 to you I pray!

kyewa di zung changchub matob bar
In this life and in future, until I attain enlightenment,
jetsün lama khyé dang midral shying
May I never be separated from you, my precious master,
sung sang dampé dütsir chöpa dang
May I always experience the nectar of your instructions, your secret speech,
rangshyen dön nyi lhün gyi drubpar shok
And may my own and others’ welfare be accomplished spontaneously!

This was written by Chökyi Lodrö in order to fulfil the request of his devoted disciples.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2006. Revised 2019.

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "skye phreng gsol 'debs/" in ’Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo
gros kyi gsung ’bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse Labrang, 2012. W1KG12986 Vol. 3: 283–284
↑ Tib. sgo mtha’ yas pa’i blo gros. According to Jamgön Kongtrul’s biography of Jamyang Khyentse
Wangpo, he was a student of Vasubandhu. The name also appears among the previous incarnations
of Jamgön Amnye Zhab Ngawang Kunga Sonam (1597–1659), who is himself counted among
Jamyang Khyentse’s previous rebirths.↑ Tsangpa Lhayi Metok is the secret name which King
Tri Songdetsen is said to have received from Guru Padmasambhava during an empowerment at
Samye Chimphu.↑ Trisong Deutsen’s reincarnation, the son of Mutik Tsenpo, known as Gyalse
Lharje, later reborn as a tertön thirteen times.↑ According to Dilgo Khyentse Rinpoche, Smṛtijñāna,
who travelled to Tibet and China, was praised by the paṇḍita Dānaśīla as unrivalled
in the whole of India for his learning and accomplishment.↑ Nyang Ral Nyima Özer (1124-1192).
The first of the five sovereign tertöns and a reincarnation of King Trisong Deutsen.
Several of his revealed treasures are included in the Rinchen Terdzö, among which the most
well known is the Kagye Deshek Düpa and the biography of Guru Rinpoche known as Zanglingma,
which has been translated into English by Erik Pema Kunsang. See The Lotus-born: The
Life Story of Padmasambhava, Rangjung Yeshe, 2004.↑ 1235–80, the nephew of Sakya Pandita.↑
Drikung Kyobpa Rinchen Pal, who was praised as an emanation of Nāgārjuna.↑ Longchen Rabjam,
alias Drimé Özer (1308–1363).↑ A master physician who compiled the four medical tantras
(rgyud bzhi). There were in fact two masters by this name, both associated with the transmission
of the medical tantras, the earlier one lived in the eighth and ninth centuries and
the later during the twelfth.↑ Lama Dampa Sonam Gyaltsen (1312–1375), the fifteenth patriarch
of Sakya.↑ Vanaratna (Tib. nags kyi rin chen; 1384–1468) was an important master in
the Kālacakra lineage. Originally from Bengal, he was one of the last great Indian scholars
to visit Tibet. In fact, according to The Blue Annals, he was referred to as ‘the last
paṇḍita.’↑ ‘gos lo tsa ba gzhon nu dpal, 1392–1481. He studied with more than sixty of the
greatest masters of his day, including Je Tsongkhapa and the great paṇḍita Vanaratna, and
composed ten volumes of writings, the most famous of his works being the celebrated Blue
Annals.↑ Rin chen mkhyen rab mchog grub (1436–1497) from Zhwa lu monastery.↑ The first Dalai
Lama.↑ 1361-1485.↑ Mus chen dkon mchog rgyal mtshan (1388–1469), who is best known for
compiling, along with his teacher Shyönnu Gyalchok,  the blo sbyong brgya rtsa ma, which was
recently translated by Geshe Thupten Jinpa as part of the Library of Tibetan Classics series.
See Mind Training: The Great Collection, Boston: Wisdom, 2006.↑ 'jam dbyangs kun dga'
bsod nams grags pa rgyal mtshan (1485–1533), aka Sakya Lotsawa Jampé Dorje.↑ Ngari Paṇchen
Pema Wangyal (1487–1542), one of the greatest scholars of the Nyingma school, famous for
his Ascertainment of the Three Sets of Vows (sdom gsum rnam nges). See Perfect Conduct,
Dudjom Rinpoche, Boston: Wisdom, 1996.↑ Nesar Jamyang Khyentse Wangchuk (1524-68), an important
holder of the lam ‘bras slob bshad transmission.↑ (1550?-1602/3) A great master of
the Northern Treasures (byang gter) tradition.↑ The Great Fifth Dalai Lama, Ngawang Lobzang
Gyatso (1617–1682).↑ Sixth Dalai Lama Tsangyang Gyatso (1683–1706/46).↑ Do Khyentse Yeshe
Dorje (1800–1866).↑ i.e., transmissions of canonical teachings (kama), earth treasures,
rediscovered treasures, mind treasures, recollected teachings, pure visions and the aural
lineage.↑ Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö himself.