The Fresh Utpala

A Prayer to the Great Learned Teacher and Vajra-Holder Jamyang Khyenrab Tayé

by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

Namo guru mañjughoṣāya!

Possessor of gentle splendour with a voice of oceanic melody,[1]The brilliant of light of your
wisdom is like the day-making sun,And your ever-joyous activity extends throughout infinite
realms—[2]Glorious guru, at your feet I pray.

O protector, although you abide securely on a pure level,Still you display the form of a spiritual
friendTo protect the teachings and beings in this degenerate age— Supreme guide and
guru, at your feet I pray.

In the male Water Dog year[3] you took birth in a noble family,Like a freshly sprouting shoot
of major and minor signs,And brought the pristine light of bounteous virtue and good—Supremely
valiant heir of the victorious ones, to you I pray.

You entered the door to the Buddha’s teachings at an early age.Khyentse Wangpo conferred the
upāsaka vows and so on upon you,[4]And crowned you with a diadem-like name of great significance.[5]To
you in whom the Mahāyāna potential awakened, I pray.

In the Akaniṣṭha palace of Ngor Evaṃ Chöden,The mighty Vajradhara Ngawang Lodrö NyingpoGranted
the kindness of conferring the three sets of vows—To you whose discipline was utterly pure,
I pray.

With the brilliant scholar Yönten, master of the three trainings,Mipham Namgyal and numerous
other tutorsAnd spiritual friends, you trained in the sciences,The outer and inner fields
of knowledge—to you I pray.

From such noble guides as the lord of secrets, Loter Wangpo,Lodrö Gyaltsen, Sherab Gyatso, and
others,You received empowerments, transmissions and instructionsRelated to the four classes
of tantra—to you I pray.

You mastered approach and accomplishment for the supreme deity,Manifesting the signs of warmth
in the yoga of the two stages.The gurus and yidam deities showed their smiling faces directly
and in visions,And the dharma guardians did your bidding—to you I pray.

Hevajra, glorious Vajrayoginī,White Tārā, Pañjaranātha and others—To you who never parted trom
profound practicesOf generation and completion based on such yidam deities, I pray.

In meditation, you experienced clear light, the view beyond conceptual elaboration,And in post-meditation,
sights and sounds dawned as deity and mantra in great bliss.To you, the renunciant
lord of yogis who remained unrestrictedBy the convoluted web of the eight worldly
concerns, I pray.

In exposition, you spoke with fluency and eloquence,In debate, your logical arguments carried
vajra-like force,In composition, you expertly elucidated the teachings—Omniscient lord among
scholars, to you I pray.

To beings connected through outer, inner and secret conditionsYou presented the light of benefit
and happiness,And with many instructions, profound and vast, on sūtra and mantraProduced
your dharma heirs—to you I pray.

You recognized the appearances of this world as dreamlike,Upheld the way of illusory self-liberation
beyond grasping,And although gaining supreme attainment, concealed it—Noble and reverend
guru, at your feet I pray.

In the female Fire Ox, your seventy-sixth year,You displayed signs of sickness, and on the fifteenth
of the Kārttika month,You passed beyond, travelling to the celestial realm of profound
yoga—Compassionate guide, to you I pray.

At that time there were wondrous signs, both outer and inner,And your precious remains, committed
to the flames, produced relics as supports for devotionAnd boundless gatherings of gifts,
the offerings of gods and human beings—Guru, sovereign of Dharma, to you I pray.

Through the power of praying with devotion in this way,May the sun of the glorious guru’s perfect
wisdomBanish the thick darkness of our ignoranceAnd cause the lotus of supreme intelligence
to bloom!

In the vast, open sky of the infinite objects of knowledge,Let the dharma sovereign unfurl the
wings of intelligence,And overcome the poisonous serpents of evil views.And let all be
auspicious for Kunga’s teachings[6] to spread far and wide!

Inspired by a request from the learned and honourable Khenpo Sonam Chokdrup, who was the master’s
nephew, combined with my own feelings of devotion and longing, I, the monk Jamyang Chökyi
Lodrö, who received many profound and vast instructions, including the empowerment of
glorious Kālacakra, from this very protector, wrote this at the great dharma centre of Dzongsar
Tashi Lhatsé during the auspicious conjunction of Venus and Revatī, on the third 'empty'
day of the waning phase of the second month of the Earth Tiger year (1938).

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2022.