The Foundation of All Qualities
by Je Tsongkhapa

yönten kün gyi shyir gyur drinchen jé
The foundation of all qualities is the gracious guru;
tsulshyin tenpa lam gyi tsawa ru
And to rely upon him or her correctly is the root of the path.
lekpar tong né bepa duma yi
Inspire us to understand this well and rouse our energies,
güpa chenpö tenpar jingyi lob
So that we may follow with the greatest respect!

len chik nyepé dalwé ten zang di
Inspire us so that we may realize how this excellent support,
shintu nyé ka dön ché shé gyur né
With its once-found freedoms, is so rare and momentous;
nyintsen küntu nyingpo lenpé lo
And let us always be determined, day and night,
gyünché mepar kyewar jingyi lob
To make the most of this precious opportunity!

lü sok yowa chu yi chubur shyin
Let us remember that life and limb are as transient and ephemeral
nyurdu jikpé chiwa drenpa dang
As bubbles in water: death, the destroyer, approaches swiftly;
shiwé jesu lü dang dribma shyin
And after death the results of positive and negative actions
karnak lé dré chishyin drangwa la
Will accompany us, just as a shadow follows the body.

ngepa tenpo nyé né nyepé tsok
Inspire us so that we may gain firm conviction in this,
tra shying trawa nam kyang pongwa dang
And remain always conscientious:
gé tsok tadak drubpar jepa la
Avoiding even the slightest harmful actions,
taktu bak dang denpar jingyi lob
While cultivating every form of virtue!

chepé mi ngom dukngal kün gyi go
Inspire us to see the shortcomings of mundane pleasures,
yiten mi rung sipé püntsok kyi
Which only disappoint, lead to every form of suffering
nyemik rik né tarwé dewa la
And cannot be relied upon;
dönnyer chenpo kyewar jingyi lob
Instead let us enthusiastically pursue the bliss of liberation!

nam dak sampa dé yi drangpa yi
Inspire us so that, motivated by this pure intention,
dren dang sheshyin bakyö chenpo yi
With mindfulness, vigilance and conscientiousness,
tenpé tsawa sosor tarwa la
We may take to heart the pratimokṣa vows,
drubpa nyingpor jepar jingyi lob
Which are the very root of the teachings.

rangnyi si tsor lhungwa jishyin du
Just as we have fallen into the ocean of existence,
mar gyur drowa kün kyang dedrawar
All other beings, our very own past mothers, have too—
tong né drowa drolwé khur khyerwé
Inspire us to see this and to master supreme bodhicitta,
changchub sem chok jongpar jingyi lob
And to take responsibility for liberating all beings.

semtsam kyé kyang tsultrim nam sum la
Inspire us to see that even if we develop the intention,
gompamé na changchub mi drubpar
Unless we train in the three types of ethical discipline,
lekpar tong né gyalsé dompa la
We will not attain awakening, and thus to apply ourselves
tsönpa drakpö lobpar jingyi lob
With great energy to upholding the bodhisattva vows.

lokpé yul la yengpa shyijé ching
Inspire us to calm distraction towards the erroneous,
yangdak dön la tsulshyin chöpa yi
And to enquire correctly into the genuine nature,
shyiné lhaktong zung du drelwé lam
So that we may swiftly generate within our minds
nyurdu gyü la kyewar jingyi lob
The path that perfectly unites tranquility and insight.

tünmong lam jang nö du gyurpa na
Inspire us, so that having trained in the common path
tekpa kün gyi chokgyur dorjé tek
And become suitable vessels, we may easily set out
kalzang kyewö jukngok dampa der
On the sublime approach of fortunate individuals
delak nyi du jukpar jingyi lob
And enter the Vajrayāna, supreme among vehicles.

detsé ngödrub nam nyi drubpé shyi
At that time, inspire us with unfeigned certainty
namdak damtsik dompar sungpa la
In the teaching that pure vows and commitment
chöma minpé ngepa nyé gyur né
Are the basis for attaining two types of siddhi,
sok dang dö té sungwar jingyi lob
And let us guard them even at the risk of our lives.

dené gyüdé nyingpo rim nyi kyi
Then, inspire us, so that having realized they key points
né nam jishyin tok né tsönpa yi
Of the two stages, which are the essence of the tantras,
tün shyi naljor chö lé mi yelwar
We may never waver from the yoga of the four sessions
dampé sung shyin drubpar jingyi lob
And practise according to the noble guru's instructions.

detar lamzang tönpé shenyen dang
Thus, may you inspire us with your blessings,
tsulshyin drubpé drok nam shyabten ching
So that the spiritual guides who reveal the excellent path
chi dang nang gi bardu chöpé tsok
And companions who practise authentically may live long,
nyewar shyiwar jingyi lab tu sol
And all outer and inner obstacles may be fully pacified!

kyewa küntu yangdak lama dang
In all our lives, may we never be separated from genuine gurus,
dralmé chö kyi pal la longchö ching
May we enjoy the splendour of the Dharma,
sa dang lam gyi yönten rabdzok né
And by perfecting the qualities of the paths and stages,
dorjé chang gi gopang nyur tob shok
May we swiftly attain the level of Vajradhara!

This was composed by Lord Tsongkhapa Lobzang Drakpa.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2018. With many thanks to Sershul Triwa Rinpoche.