The Hook of Compassion: A Prayer to the Garland of Successive Rebirths
from the pure visions of Sera Khandro

emaho
Emaho!
deshek nyingpö ngang dang chudé gar
Radiating from the sugata-essence, like the illusory reflection of the moon in water,
natsok tab kyi ten drö pal sharwa
You arose through various means as a splendour for the teachings and beings.
tubpé chen ngar gelong utpal ma
In Śākyamuni's presence, you were the nun Utpali,
dorjé den du rolang dé rol ma
At Bodhgayā, the Vajra Seat, you were Rolang Derolma,
pemé jezung shel kar shyiwa tso
Cared for by Padma, you were Shelkar Shiwatso,
bairo tsa né jinlab mindrol dzé
Vairotsana granted you blessings, ripening empowerments and liberating instructions.
drolmé shyalzik chok gi ngödrub nyé
You saw Tārā face to face and received the supreme attainment.
liyul changchub chö drön palmo dang
In Khotan, you were Changchub Chödrön Palmo,
nelmo shö du kün ga bum ma dang
In the Nelmo valley, you were Kunga Buma,
tsang rong nyechar tamdrin wangmor drak
In Tsang valley, most recently, you were renowned as Tamdrin Wangmo,1
böyul ü su sukha benza tsal
In Central Tibet you are Sukhavajra Tsal,
ma ong dong chur dewé jungné shyé
And in future, in Dongchu, you will be Dewé Jungné—
ku treng rimpar gyüpar solwa deb
To you in these, your successive lives, I pray!
deng né zung té jisi changchub bar
Inspire me with your blessings, so that from this moment on, until I attain awakening,
jetsün naljor khyé dang mindral shying
I may never part from you, O noble yoginī,
zab chö dütsi pal la longchö ching
And I may enjoy the splendid nectar of your profound teachings,
sa dang lam drö rimpar mi töpar
Without gradually progressing through the stages and paths,
ösal dzogchen gongpa ngöngyur ching
I may realize the intent of the clear light Great Perfection,
tögal nang shyi nyamlen tarchin né
Perfect the practice of Tögal's four visions,
jalü chöku drubpar jingyi lob
And accomplish the rainbow body dharmakāya!
dak dang dak la drel tok semchen kün
May I and those who are connected to me—all sentient beings—
mi né chökü tensi zinpar shok
Seize the stronghold of the non-abiding dharmakāya!

Thus, in response to an enthusiastic request from the one who possesses the threefold training,
Wön Prabhavajra,2 who expressed a need for just such as prayer, this was written by the
mindless blunderer Prajñātāre. May it be virtuous!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2019.
↑ i.e., Sakya Tamdrin Wangmo, 1836–1896. (Tamdrin Wangmo's death thus post-dates Sera Khandro's
birth.)↑ The original reads: pra wa badzra. The intended spelling is unclear.