Waves in A Sea of Devotion
A Prayer to the Garland of Zurmang Trungpa Rinpoche Incarnations
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

om swasti
Oṃ svasti!
ganden lha gyé dakpo chokgyur pa
Supreme sovereign of a hundred devas in Tuṣita,
jampa chenpo jamchen drowé gön
Magnificent Maitreya, great loving guardian of beings,
chökyi gyaltsab gyalsé chenpo ni
Dharma regent, great heir to the conquerors,
ma ong sangye dé la solwa deb
Buddha of the future, to you I pray.

gyalrik lé trung gyé dor drubpa nyé
Born into the warrior class, you won attainment through Hevajra,
naljor wangchuk chenpö chöpa yi
And with the conduct of a great lord of yogis,
chok lé namgyal dzutrul tak la chib
Miraculously riding upon a tiger, gained victory over all—
dombhi heruka la sol la solwa deb
Ḍombī Heruka, at your feet I pray.

ösal dorjé tsemö khang zang du
In the fine mansion of the Vajra Pinnacle of Clear Light,
rigdzin drubpa chenpö kur shyeng té
You arose in the form of a greatly accomplished vidyādhara,
tek chok tenpa nyinmor jepé gön
A guardian of the sun-like teachings of the supreme vehicle—
shiri singhé shyab la solwa deb
Śrī Siṃha, at your feet I pray.

orgyen chenpö jinlab tuk kyi sé
Heart son, blessed by the Great One of Oḍḍiyāna,1
dik chö gyalpo dorjé da yi bik
Your vajra arrow struck the evil-doing king,
chak na dorjé mi yi dzur shyukpa
For you were Vajrapāṇi himself in human guise—
pal gyi dorjé shyab la solwa deb
Palgyi Dorje,2 at your feet I pray.

lungsem nyimé tokpa ngön du gyur
You realized the non-duality of wind-energy and mind,
khordé chö kün rangdrol chakgya cher
And self-liberated all the phenomena of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa as Mahāmudrā,
namyang mi da drugu repa shyé
Never lapsing from that state—Drugu Repa,3
drubpé wangchuk chenpor solwa deb
Lord of siddhas, at your feet I pray.

lama chok ten zabmö dampa tob
You followed a supreme guru, received profound instructions,
jishyin nyam lang nangwa chökur char
Practised them precisely, so that appearances arose as dharmakāya;
rangsem kyemé chöku ngöngyur pa
And your own mind, too, you realized as unborn dharmakāya—
lhopa gomchung shyab la solwa deb
Lhopa Gomchung,4 at your feet I pray.

nyö kyi rik lé trungpé gyalwé sé
Born into the Nyö clan as an heir to the victorious,
do ngak khyen rab gongpé tsal chen dzok
Your power of realization was perfected in knowledge of sūtra and mantra,
khedrub gyatsö tsuk na rab towa
And you rose to the crest of an ocean of the learned and accomplished,
ting ma sangye drak la solwa deb
Tingma Sangye Drak,5 at your feet I pray.

drubgyü drubchen lodrö rinchen gyi
Heart-son of Lodrö Rinchen, the great siddha of the practice lineage,
tuksé ngedön tokpé kabab ché
Through the great transmission of definitive realization,
gommé chökü gyalsa rab nyepa
You attained the kingdom of dharmakāya beyond meditation—
kün ga gyaltsen shyab la solwa deb
Kunga Gyaltsen,6 at your feet I pray.

tser lung né su drubpé gyaltsen tsuk
In Tserlung you planted the victory banner of accomplishment,
mahakalé gyé shyal yangyang ten
And Mahākāla repeatedly revealed to you his joyful face,
tutob nüpa gyatsö ngadak chok
Supreme sovereign of oceanic power and capacity—
künga zangpö shyab la solwa deb
Kunga Zangpo,7 at your feet I pray.

chi ru nyentö chöpa rab kyang shing
Outwardly, you nurtured the conduct of a śrāvaka,
nang du changchub sem nyi tuk la jong
Inwardly, you assimilated the two kinds of bodhicitta,
sangwa khordé chö kün umar dom
Secretly, you bound the dharmas of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa within the central channel—
künga özer shyab la solwa deb
Kunga Özer,8 at your feet I pray.

rabjam shejé chö kün saler zik
You clearly perceived all knowable things in their infinity,
tsa lung tiklé dangma yomé ching
And held fast the pure aspects of channels, energies and essences,
khorlo dompa drubpé khyuchok ché
Great leader among the siddhas of Cakrasaṃvara—
künga namgyal shyab la solwa deb
Kunga Namgyal,9 at your feet I pray.

drubgyü gyatsö ü na rab to shying
Pre-eminent amidst the oceanic lineage of practice,
tö sam gompé tar sön denyi nyé
You perfected study, contemplation and meditation, realized suchness,
yangdak yeshe drubpé puljungwa
And acquired the most excellent attainment of perfect wisdom—
tenpa namgyal shyab la solwa deb
Tenpa Namgyal,10 at your feet I pray.

ka shyi gyüpé chulung jinyepa
All the rivers of the lineage of fourfold transmission11 merged
tuk tsor kyil né dulja min dzé ching
Within the ocean of your mind and your brought disciples to maturity,
sa dang lam gyi ngön tak tönpor shek
Arriving at the highest realization of the paths and stages—
tendzin chökyi gyatsor la solwa deb
Tendzin Chökyi Gyatso,12 at your feet I pray.

nyengyü dampé ter la wangjor shying
You acquired the treasure-like instructions of the aural lineage,
drub nyi norbü gyaltsen dreng dzepa
Raised the jewelled victory banner of the two kinds of siddhi,
kalden ku shyi lamzang triwé nyen
And guided the fortunate along the excellent path to the four kāyas—
jampal chökyi gyatsor solwa deb
Jampal Chökyi Gyatso,13 at your feet I pray.

karma kagyü tendzin jewé pul
Foremost among millions of holders of the Karma Kagyü teachings,
zabsang drubpé lam tak ngön du gyur
You actualized the signs of the path to accomplishing the profound secret,
shyenpen trinlé tsalshuk rab changwa
And held the perfect strength to act for the benefit of beings—
gyurmé tenpel shyab la solwa deb
Gyurme Tenpel,14 at your feet I pray.

karma pa yi tuk kyi sé su gyur
You became the heart-son of the Karmapa,
ngedön denpa jishyin zikpé chen
With your vision that perfectly beheld the truth of the definitive meaning,
chökyi wangchuk nyengyü mindrol pel
Lord of Dharma, you propagated the aural lineage that matures and liberates—
tenpa tagyé shyab la solwa deb
Tenpa Tagyé,15 at your feet I pray.

jamyang lamé tuk kyi sé chikpu
One and only heart-son of the Mañjughoṣa guru,16
khé dang drubpé khyuchok labpo ché
Sublime leader of the learned and accomplished,
karma nyengyü tenpé sokdzin pa
Holder of the vital of the aural transmission of Karma Kagyü—
chökyi nyinjé shyab la solwa deb
Chökyi Nyinché,17 at your feet I pray.

naljor wangchuk kün ga lekpa sok
In your mind you recalled previous states in the play of rebirth,
sar nying khedrub kyewé dögar du
As learned and accomplished masters of Old and New Schools,
ngön né jesu drenpé tuk ngawa
Including as the lord of yogis, Kunga Lekpa—
khyabdak palden lamar solwa deb
Glorious, all-encompassing guru, to you I pray.

gyalsé nyingjé dawa chenpo ni
Conquerors’ heir, great moon of compassion,
changchub rik kyi nüpa yongsu gyé
In whom the potential of the enlightened family is fully present,
tekchen gyalwé lamzang ten khepa
Skilled follower of the Great Vehicle’s excellent path to victory—
karma trinlé künkhyab shyabten sol
Karma Trinlé Kunkhyab,18 I pray that your life may remain secure.

detar tsa gyü lamé tsok nam la
Thus, before this assembly of root and lineage gurus,
güpé chaktsal chö bul diktung shak
I devotedly pay homage, make offerings, confess my misdeeds and downfalls,
gé la yirang chökhor korwar kul
Rejoice in virtue, request the turning of the Wheel of Dharma,
nya ngen mi da shyuk sol gé tsok ngo
Beseech you not to pass into nirvāṇa but remain, and dedicate stores of virtue.

dro tsok namkhé patar tukpa nam
May the hosts of beings who extend even unto the limits of space
drib jang tsok dzok ku shyi gopang tob
Purify obscurations, perfect the accumulations, and attain the four kāyas.
dakshyen deng né changchub nyingpö bar
From now until I and others reach the essence of awakening,
palden lamé dralmé jedzin shok
May the glorious guru guide us without ever parting!

Written by Jamyang Chökyi Lodrö in response to a request from Karma Ösel Lhundrup, holder of
the treasury of the three trainings. May this become a cause for the guru’s blessings to
seep into our hearts. Sarvadā maṅgalam.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2021.

Sources: 'jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "zur mang drung rin po che'i skyes phreng gsol 'debs/"
in gsung 'bum/_'jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros/ (dbu med/). TBRC W21813. 8 vols. Gangtok:
Dzongsar Khyentse Labrang, 1981-1985. Vol. 2: 169–173
'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "zur mang drung rin po che'i skyes phreng gsol 'debs/" in ’Jam
dbyangs chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung 'bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse Labrang, 2012. W1KG12986
Vol. 3: 227–230

Version: 1.1-20211029
↑ Here following the dbu med edition, which has o rgyan chen pos, while the 2012 edition of
the sungbum has o rgan rin pos.↑ Lhalung Palgyi Dorje (lha lung dpal gyi rdo rje).↑ Also known
as Drogön Rechen (‘gro mgon ras chen), ‘great cotton-clad guardian of beings’.↑ Possibly
to be identified with Gomchung Sherab Changchub (1130–1173).↑ Tingmapa Sangye Drakö (mthing
ma pa sangs rgyas grags ‘od).↑ The First Trungpa, who founded Zurmang Düdtsi Til in
1423.↑ The Second Trungpa (b. 1464).↑ The Third Trungpa.↑ the Fourth Trungpa (1567–1629).↑
Drupgyü Tenpa Namgyel (1633–1712), the Fifth Trungpa.↑ The four transmissions (bka' babs
bzhi) received by Tilopa, from which the Kagyü (bka' brgyud) School takes its name are generally
said to be: 1) Cāryapa's instructions on caṇḍālāi or tummo (inner heat), 2) Nāgārjuna's
instructions on illusory body and clear light or luminosity (prabhāsvara), 3) Kambala's
instructions on dreams, and 4) Sukhāsiddhī's instructions on bardo and transference of
consciousness ('pho ba).↑ Also known as Tendzin Chögyal, the Sixth Trungpa↑ Better known as
Karma Rabsel, the Seventh Trungpa.↑ The Eighth Trungpa (b. 1771).↑ Also known as Gelek Chökyi
Nyima, the Ninth Trungpa↑ Mañjughoṣa guru here refers specifically to Jamgön Kongtrul
Lodrö Thaye (1813–1899).↑ Karma Chökyi Nyinché (c.1879–1938), the Tenth Trungpa, from whom
Jamyang Khyentse received both the Vast treasury of Authoritative Teachings (rgya chen
bka’ mdzod) and Treasury of Precious Instructions (gdams ngag mdzod).↑ I.e., Chögyam Trungpa
(1939–1987).